---
title:  Jesus, The Religious Leader We Can Trust
date:  29/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 5:1–10; Hebrews 7:1–3; Genesis 14:18–20; Hebrews 7:11–16; Hebrews 7:26.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Jesus is the high priest [chief religious leader] we need. He is holy and innocent and faultless [has no sin or guilt], and not at all like [He is separate from] us sinners [because He never sinned]. Jesus is honored above all beings [angels] in heaven” (Hebrews 7:26, CEV).

SIN CAUSED AN AWFUL SEPARATION between God and man. The problem was made worse because sin also changed us. The human heart became evil after Adam and Eve sinned. God is holy. Sin cannot come near God. So as sinners, we became separated from Him. Because our hearts are evil, we cannot obey the law of God. Sin also caused misunderstanding. We often believe lies about the love of God and His mercy.

This week, we shall study the wonderful things that God our Father and Jesus the Son did to end the separation between God and humans. Hebrews 5–7 explains the job that Jesus does as our High Priest or Chief Religious Leader. Paul talks about how and why Jesus became our High Priest (Hebrews 5:1–10). Next, Paul tells his readers not to reject the work that Jesus their High Priest does for them (Hebrews 5:11–6:8). Paul tells his readers to hold on to the hope they get from believing in Jesus as their High Priest (Hebrews 6:9–20), too. Paul also compares Jesus to Melchizedek (Hebrews 7:1–10). Then Paul shows us how Jesus makes a way for us to go to God (Hebrews 7:11–28). We will look mostly at Hebrews 5:1–10 and Hebrews 7:1–28.