---
title:  A Chief Religious Leader Who Works For Us 
date:  30/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What is the job of the High Priest or Chief Religious Leader? How does Jesus show that He does this work? For the answers, read Hebrews 5:1–10?`

A priest or religious leader helps sinners come to God. God Himself chose the priests of Israel to do this special work. So, the priests needed to show mercy to sinners because they are weak.

In Hebrews 5:5–10, Paul shows us that Jesus does this special work. God chooses Jesus to be our High Priest (Hebrews 5:5, 6). Also, Jesus understands us because He also suffered (Hebrews 5:7, 8).

But Jesus is different from human priests in important ways. God does not select Jesus from a group of humans (Hebrews 5:1). Jesus became human to serve as a priest for us. Jesus did not offer gifts for His own sins (Hebrews 5:3). Jesus offered gifts for our sins only because “he never sinned” (Hebrews 4:15, ERV; Hebrews 7:26–28).

Hebrews says that Jesus prayed to God who had the power “to save Him from death” (Hebrews 5:7, WE). What “death” is Paul talking about? The second death. God saved Jesus from the second death when He woke Him up from His grave (Hebrews 13:20). Paul also says that Jesus “learned to obey by the things He suffered” (Hebrews 5:8, NLV). For Jesus, obedience was something new. Why? Because Jesus was God. As God, Jesus obeyed no one. Everyone obeyed Jesus.

So, Jesus suffered. He died on the cross. His suffering and death are important to His work as our High Priest. Suffering did not make Jesus clean inside or fill Jesus with more mercy. Jesus came to this earth because He already had mercy for us in His heart. As God, Jesus felt so much pity for us (Hebrews 2:17). So, why did Jesus need to suffer? By His suffering, Jesus showed that He really became human. He showed us a life of perfect obedience. He showed us that He was a Brother to suffering humans. Jesus showed us how to give our lives fully to God. Jesus showed us how to let God control our minds and hearts completely. As our High Priest, Jesus offers the Father two gifts to help us: His life of perfect obedience and His death.

`1 Peter 2:9 (WE) says you are “priests to your king.” Jesus is our King. What does this Bible truth show us that God expects us, as His priests, to do to help other people?`