---
title:  But Better Than Melchizedek 
date:  31/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Who was Melchizedek? How does He show us Jesus? For the answers, read Genesis 14:18–20 and Hebrews 7:1–3.`

Melchizedek was both a king and a priest or religious leader. Melchizedek was also a more important person than Abraham because Abraham paid tithe to Melchizedek. Tithe is a special offering to God that is equal to 10 percent of all the money we get. Jesus is a King and Priest, too (Hebrews 1:3). But Jesus also is different from Melchizedek, because Jesus never sinned (Hebrews 7:26–28).

Paul explains that Jesus is a priest “who is like [the same in many ways but better than] Melchizedek” (Hebrews 7:15, WE). Jesus does not replace Melchizedek as priest. But Jesus does many things Melchizedek does. So, if we study about Melchizedek, we can learn many things about the work of Jesus as our High Priest.

Let us look at what Paul says about Melchizedek:

“No one knows who his father or mother was or where he came from. And no one knows when he was born or when he died” (Hebrews 7:3, ERV). Some people think this verse means that Melchizedek was Jesus. But Paul does not agree with this idea. Paul says, “Melchizedek is like [the same in many ways as] the Son of God” (Hebrews 7:3, ERV). “Much the same” does not mean “exactly the same.” So, Melchizedek was different in some ways from Jesus.

Other people say Melchizedek came from heaven. But that idea also does not agree with Hebrews 7. If Melchizedek has no father or mother, then he must be God Himself. That means Melchizedek was a priest before Jesus was. This idea causes a problem. “If those priests [sons of Aaron and Melchizedek] were good enough, why would another priest need to come who was like [much the same as but better than] Melchizedek?” (Hebrews 7:11, WE).

Melchizedek was only a king-priest from the land of Canaan. The Bible does not say who his father or mother are or where he was born. So, this missing information makes Melchizedek an excellent word-picture for Jesus. In this way, Melchizedek shows us Jesus. Jesus has no beginning or end. Jesus has always been alive. He will live forever.

“Melchizedek was a priest of God. Melchizedek was not Jesus. Melchizedek was the messenger of Jesus on earth. Melchizedek showed us who God is.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 409, adapted.