---
title:  A Religious Leader Who Meets Our Needs 
date:  01/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The Law was given during the time when Levi and his sons were the religious leaders. If the work of those religious leaders had been perfect in taking away the sins of the people, there would have been no need for another religious leader. But one [leader] like [the same in many ways but better than] Melchizedek was needed and not one from the family group of Aaron” (Hebrews 7:11, NLV).

Priests, or religious leaders, made a way for people to come to God. But this way was not perfect or complete. Why? Because the priests came from the family group of Levi. As sinners, the priests from the family of Levi are not perfect. So, how can they make anyone else perfect (Hebrews 7:11, 18, 19)?

The priests offered God animal gifts for the sins of Israel. But the gifts did not make sinners clean. The gifts only showed people the future work of Jesus. Only His death removes sin from our hearts (Hebrews 9:14; Hebrews 10:1–3, 10–14). So, the priests and their work were a word picture. They helped people trust the real “Lamb of God [Jesus]. He takes away the sins of the world!” (John 1:29, ERV).

`Why did God need to change the law? For the answer, read Hebrews 7:11–16.`

Hebrews 7:12 explains the reason for the change: God made a change to the job the priests did. So, God needed to change the law. Why was this change necessary? Because Moses gave Israel a very strict law about who can be a priest. Only a male from the family group of Levi and the line of Aaron can serve as a priest (Numbers 3:10; Numbers 16:39, 40). Hebrews 7:13, 14 explains that Jesus was from the family group of Judah, not Levi. So, the law did not allow Jesus to be a priest. Paul shows that God changed the law about who can serve as a priest when He made Jesus our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader.

God also made another change to the law after Jesus offered Himself as the perfect gift for our sins. God stopped all animal offerings for sin (Hebrews 10:17, 18).

`Think about all the animals that people in Bible times offered for their sins. All these animals showed them Jesus. But not one of these gifts ever paid for their sins. Why can only the death of Jesus pay for sin?`