---
title:  A Priest Or Religious Leader Forever 
date:  02/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What makes Jesus our perfect High Priest or Chief Religious Leader? Why is He the best Person for the job and the only One who can get it done right? For the answer, read Hebrews 7:16.`

God made Jesus our High Priest because Jesus will never die. So, Jesus always can serve and help His people. What hope do these Bible truths give us? Wonderful hope! Jesus “can save those [people] who come to God through [by faith in] him. Christ [Jesus] can do this forever, because he always lives and is ready to help people when they come before [to] God” (Hebrews 7:25, ERV). Jesus saves us in every way and for all time. He shows us our sins. He also makes us completely clean from sin. He removes our guilt, too (Hebrews 4:12; Hebrews 9:14; Hebrews 10:1–4).

Yes, Jesus goes to God for us. Jesus asks God to forgive our sins. But the work Jesus does as our High Priest includes so much more! Jesus also puts His law in our hearts. Jesus gives us power over sin and makes our lives new. As our High Priest, Jesus helps us share the Good News about Him with other people (Hebrews 8:10–12). Jesus also is our Lawyer. He fights for us in the court of heaven. Jesus can do this work for us because He is One with God and with humans. Because Jesus offered Himself for us, God gives Jesus everything He asks for to help us.

`What part does Jesus have in the New Agreement? For the answer, read Hebrews 7:22.`

Jesus agreed to pay the price for our sins. So, because of this promise, God swore an oath. God promised to make Jesus a priest “forever” (Hebrews 7:21, KJV). This oath is very important. So, we must be sure we understand why. As you will remember, Paul told us that God made an oath to the Israelites in the desert and an oath to Abraham (Hebrews 3:7–11; Hebrews 6:13–15). How are these two oaths different from the oath God makes to Jesus, His Son? The oaths to the Israelites and to Abraham were made to humans. Oaths continue as long as the people that God made the promises to are alive (read Galatians 3:29).

Humans die. But Jesus lives forever. The oath that God made to Jesus continues forever, too. So, we can be very sure of the promise of mercy that God gives us in Jesus.