---
title:  A Religious Leader Who Never Sinned 
date:  03/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 7:26. What five things do we learn about Jesus in this verse?`

Jesus was holy. “But he never sinned” (Hebrews 4:15, ERV; read also Hebrews 2:18; Hebrews 5:7, 8). So, His connection to God was never broken.

Jesus “has no sin in him” (Hebrews 7:26, ERV). So, He has no guilt or blame. Jesus was “tested in every way, just as we are. But he did not do anything wrong” (Hebrews 4:15, WE; Hebrews 2:18). His mind and body stayed clean. This Bible truth is important. The Old Testament shows us that any animal that an Israelite offered for sin must be perfect. There must be “nothing wrong with it” (Leviticus 1:3, 10, ERV). The perfect animal shows us the perfect life of obedience that Jesus lived. His perfect obedience made His offering for our sins possible. Because of His obedience, God accepted the offering (Hebrews 9:14).

Jesus “was separated from sinners” (Hebrews 7:26, NRSV) when He went up to heaven. Sinners hated Jesus while He lived on the earth. But Jesus was patient. He won the war against sin. Then He sat down at the right side of God in heaven (Hebrews 12:2, 3). Jesus is also “separate from sinners” because “He did not sin” (Hebrews 4:15, NLV).

Jesus also “has the place of honor above the heavens [skies]” (Hebrews 7:26, NLV). What does this verse show? God gave more honor to Jesus than He gave to anyone or anything else alive. This honor shows us that Jesus is equal with God. The Psalms show that only God is “honored above the heavens [skies]” (Psalm 57:5, 11; Psalm 108:5).

Jesus was fully human. But again, He never sinned (Hebrews 2:14–16; Hebrews 4:15). So, Jesus is perfect.

Because “Jesus became a man like [as real as] us” (Hebrews 2:14, NLV), He is our Example. He shows us how to live by faith (Hebrews 12:1–4; 1 Peter 2:21–23). “Jesus is holy and has no guilt. He has never sinned and is different from” people who choose to sin (Hebrews 7:26, NLV). So, Jesus is our Savior. He helps us show people His love.

`Yes, Jesus was a human the same as we are. But He never sinned. For sure, Jesus must be very holy! Because of Jesus, the Father views us as if we never sinned. By faith, this wonderful promise is ours. Why should this promise help us to trust in the mercy of God to save us?`