---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Jesus watches His children. He knows all about our heavy loads, dangers, and troubles. Jesus goes to God for us. Jesus meets the needs of each person, just as He did with Peter. . . . Jesus is our Lawyer. He teaches us to stay strong when Satan tries to get us to do wrong. Jesus stops every evil plan Satan makes against us. Jesus controls everything that happens in heaven and on earth.”—Ellen G. White, SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, page 931, (Letter 90, 1906), adapted.

“Satan wanted to separate God and humans forever. But in Jesus, we become closer to God than if we never sinned. When the Savior came to earth as one of us, He connected Himself to the human family forever. This connection between us and the Savior cannot be broken. . . . God made this special pledge: ‘God will give us a son who will be responsible for leading the people.’ [Isaiah 9:6, ERV]. God adopted our human thoughts and feelings as His own. God did this thing when Jesus became human. When Jesus woke up from the dead and went to heaven, He continued to be connected to humans. He is the ‘Son of Man.’ The ‘Son of Man’ shares the throne of His Father. The ‘Son of Man’ shall be named ‘Wonderful Counselor, Powerful God, Father Who Lives Forever, Prince of Peace.’ Isaiah 9:6 [ERV]. Jesus is the I AM. He also helps humans come to God. Jesus stands between God and humans. Jesus is ‘holy and has no guilt. He has never sinned and is different from’ people who choose to sin. Hebrews 7:26 [NLV]; Hebrews 2:11. Jesus joins the family on earth to the family in heaven. In heaven, Jesus is honored with praise and worship. This same Jesus is our Brother. He loves us with an everlasting love.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 25, 26, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The first quote says: ‘Jesus goes to God for us.’ What does this wonderful promise mean to you? How does it show us the love of God for us? How does this idea about the love of God encourage you? Why do we need someone to go to God for us?`

`The second quote says: ‘In Jesus, we become closer to God than if we never sinned.’ Wow! What does this beautiful promise mean? How can we have this experience? How does this promise about your becoming so close to God give you comfort?`