---
title:  God’s Hard Drive
date:  12/11/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Daniel 7 and Revelation 20:11–15**

**God’s Hard Drive**

In our first lesson, we saw that God formed the physical body of Adam out of the dust of the ground with all its organs and systems. Adam’s body was perfect but lifeless, so God infused into his nostrils the breath of life, and all the organs and systems began to function. From the start, the brain began to input, record, and classify all the information that came in through the five senses. From his first breath, Adam began to write his life history, which was recorded in his brain in the minutest detail. In the course of his life, he formed his own unique self-identity, distinct from that of any other person. Every act, thought, word, emotion, and motive was recorded in his brain.

When Adam died at age 930, his entire life had been stored in a few pounds of flesh! After death, Adam’s brain disintegrated and, along with it, his entire life record. God had a backup stored in heaven, however. “As the artist takes on the polished glass a true picture of the human face, so the angels of God daily place upon the books of heaven an exact representation of the character of every human being.” (Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1967), 360.) If written today, it might be said that God stores our character or life history on His “heavenly hard drive.”

This is where we begin our study. Three Bible topics will be looked at simultaneously: the state of the dead, the pre-Advent investigative judgment, and the second coming of Jesus. Seeing as these beliefs are so closely linked that misunderstanding one will lead to misunderstanding all three.

#### inScribe

Read Daniel 7 and Revelation 20:11–15 from the translation of your choice. Write out Daniel 7:9, 10, 27. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `