---
title:  The Books and The Book of Life
date:  13/11/2022
---

#### inGest

The system of jurisprudence in many nations of the world is a reflection of the divine method of judgment. First comes the trial, then the verdict and sentence based on the findings of the trial, and finally the implementation of the sentence. The accused is presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.

Regarding judgment, Revelation 20:12 refers to books (plural) and a book (singular—which is the book of life). Records of the life of every human are kept in heavenly books (Dan. 7:9, 10; 2 Cor. 5:10; Matt. 12:36, 37; Eccles. 12:13, 14; Rev. 20:12, 13), and the book of life contains the names of those who claimed to trust in Jesus (Ps. 69:28; Mal. 3:16; Luke 10:20; Phil. 4:3; Rev. 3:5; 13:8; Exod. 32:32, 33; Dan. 12:1).

The Bible teaches that each professed believer in Christ must appear before His judgment seat to render an account for the things done in this life (2 Cor. 5:10). This judgment takes place in heaven (Dan. 7:9, 10) during probationary time (Rev. 14:6, 7), and when Jesus returns, He will give the reward of eternal life to those who truly trusted in Him (Matt. 16:27; Rev. 22:12; 1 Thess. 4:15–17). This pre-Advent investigative judgment involves only those who claimed Jesus as their advocate and transpires in chronological order beginning with those who first lived: “As the books of record are opened in the judgment, the lives of all who have believed on Jesus come in review before God. Beginning with those who first lived upon the earth, our Advocate presents the cases of each successive generation, and closes with the living.” (Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 483.)

While the judgment transpires in heaven, the righteous dead are in their graves, not in heaven (John 5:28, 29). So, the question is, How can the righteous dead appear before the judgment seat of Christ in heaven before the Second Coming if they are dead and buried on earth? Does their immortal soul appear in heaven while their body remains in the grave? Of course not! The Bible clearly teaches that they appear in heaven through their biographical backup written in the books (Rev. 20:12, 13). “The righteous dead will not be raised until after the judgment at which they are accounted worthy of ‘the resurrection of life.’ Hence they will not be present in person at the tribunal when their records are examined and their cases decided.” (White, _The Great Controversy_, 482.)

After all who have claimed the name of Jesus are judged in heaven, human probation will close (Rev. 22:11), the time of trouble will ensue (Dan. 12:1), and then the righteous dead, who were found worthy in the judgment, will come forth from the grave, never more to die (cf. Rev. 22:12; Matt. 16:27; 1 Thess. 4:15–17; Dan. 12:2). Clearly, the pre-Advent investigative judgment, the state of the dead, and the second coming of Jesus are closely related.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Daniel 7 and Revelation 20:11–15. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How is your confidence and assurance in Christ as your Advocate, Judge, and Redeemer in the judgment?`

`How is the investigative judgment great news?`