---
title:  The Spirit that Returns
date:  14/11/2022
---

#### inTerpret

We generally think of the spirit that returns to God at death (Eccles. 12:7) as the breath that keeps the body alive—and it is. The spirit that returns to God is more than just the breath of life, however. It is the breath of life along with the person’s biographical record and character that God keeps, so to speak, on His “heavenly hard drive.” When believers die, God closes their life record and character in the heavenly books and stores it until the resurrection. At the resurrection, believers will have their own life record and character. True, God will restore the breath of life, but with it He will also restore the life record and character. This is why Job, with great certainty, said that _he_ would see God at the resurrection in his _own_ flesh, and not another’s: “And after _my_ skin is destroyed, this I know, that in _my_ flesh I shall see God, whom _I shall see_ for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and _not another_. How my heart yearns within me!” (Job 19:26, 27, emphasis supplied). Job was not saying that only he and no one else would see God at the resurrection. His emphasis was that the resurrected Job would be the same Job!

The Bible provides evidence that the spirit is more than just the breath. The apostle Paul used a personal pronoun and the word spirit interchangeably in his benedictions to the churches. For example, in 1 Thessalonians 5:28 he wrote, “The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with _you_. Amen” (cf. Rom. 16:24; Phil. 4:23). In Galatians 6:18, however, he wrote, “Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with _your spirit_. Amen” (cf. 2 Tim. 4:22; Philem. 25). In these verses the word spirit is used interchangeably with the personal pronoun “you.” William Barclay has pointed out that “the spirit there [in Galatians 6:18] is what we might call the Christian personality of Paul’s friends.” (William Barclay, _Flesh and Spirit: An Examination of Galatians 5:19–23_ (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 1962), 14.)

When Jesus resurrected the daughter of Jairus, her spirit returned (Luke 8:55). Not _the_ spirit, but _her_ spirit! No doubt she remembered the past events of her life and recognized her parents. She picked up where she left off. Immediately before his death, Stephen cried out, “Lord Jesus, receive _my_ spirit” (Acts 7:59, emphasis supplied). Once again, not _the_ spirit, but “_my_” spirit! And when Jesus died on the cross He cried out, “Father, into thy hands I commend _my_ spirit” (Luke 23:46, emphasis supplied).

Ellen White, in harmony with Scripture, wrote about the broader meaning of the word _spirit_: “Our personal identity is preserved in the resurrection, though not the same particles of matter or material substance as went into the grave. The wondrous works of God are a mystery to man. The spirit, the _character_ of man, is _returned to God_, there to be _preserved_. In the resurrection every man will have _his own_ character.” (Ellen G. White Comments, _Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary_, 6:1093, emphasis supplied.)

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How is spiritual development related to character, personality, and your individuality?`