---
title:  Lessons from Big Tech
date:  16/11/2022
---

#### inVite

Hebrews 9:27 tells us that “it is appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment” (NKJV). What comes to your mind when you hear the word _judgment_? Does it give you confidence, or does it conjure up fear? One thing is certain: if we have abided in Christ, we can face the judgment with confidence because He is our Advocate (1 John 2:1, 2; Heb. 7:26; 4:14–16). Death means little to believers because they know that God stores a record of their lives in the heavenly books. God knows that we are dust and that our body will return to dust at death (Ps. 103:14), and therefore He keeps a backup of our lives in the heavenly records.

Modern technology helps us understand how God stores and retrieves our life record. A computer is a magnificent piece of equipment with many complex components. It is “lifeless” until it is connected to a power source, however. When we plug in the computer, all its complex components begin to work, and as time passes, we input information into the computer’s “brain,” and it becomes our own computer. No other one is like it! If a fire destroys the computer, all its memory is lost. The good news is that smart people back up the information.

Suppose for a moment that a fire destroys your computer but you have backed up all the information on a separate hard drive. You can purchase an even better computer, plug it in, and transfer the information on the hard drive to the new computer. You are transferring the “identity” of the first computer to the second, so to speak. You can even delete some undesirable information from your old computer.

God created a magnificent human body with all its complex systems and gave it the breath of life. In the course of our lives we input information through the five senses into our brains and we form a unique self-identity. There is no one like us. At death our body disintegrates along with all the information in our brain. The good news, however, is that God keeps a backup on His heavenly “hard drive.” When Jesus comes, He will give us an indestructible body, connect us to the power source, and return our self-identity to our new body, having deleted in the pre-Advent judgment the undesirable information.

God does not forget us. Those who are in the grave will hear His voice and come forth (John 5:28, 29). The selfsame Job who went through unspeakable trials and sufferings will see Jesus with his own eyes. God will restore his self-identity, and Job will be Job! His heart yearned for that moment (Job 19:27) when he exclaimed, “You shall call, and I will answer You; You shall desire the work of Your hands” (Job 14:15). Jesus wants us with Him (John 14:1–3; 17:24; 1 Thess. 4:17; Ezek. 48:35; Rev. 22:3). “Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His saints” (Ps. 116:15).

`Where is Christ’s role in relation to your death, your judgment, and your resurrection?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`