---
title:  Are You the King of the Jews?
date:   15/09/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 15:1–15. What ironies do you see in this story? As we saw yesterday, irony is an experience that happens in a way that is different from what you may expect.`

The Jews decide Jesus must die for saying He is God. Roman law didn’t allow the Jews to kill anyone. So, the Jews brought Jesus to Pilate. Pilate was the Roman governor of Judea from a.d. 26–36. Pilate was not a nice leader. He did many things to upset the Jews (compare with Luke 13:1).

Pilate’s question gives us a hint of the “crime” that the Jews accused Jesus of doing. Pilate asks Jesus, “ ‘Are you the King of the Jews?’ ” (Mark 15:2, ESV). In Old Testament times, Jewish leaders poured oil on Israel’s kings to show that God chose them. The word for the Savior in the Hebrew language was “Messiah,” which meant “the One God chose and poured His Spirit on,” the same as oil. So, for many Jews, the idea of the Messiah was the same as a king. As a king, the Messiah could challenge the King of Rome. So, when Jesus says He is God, we understand why the Jews accuse Him of fighting against Rome. The Romans often killed people for this crime.

Do you see the irony or misunderstanding in this story? The Jews want to kill Jesus because He says He is God and the King of the Jews. The irony is that the Jews don’t see that Jesus is both! The leaders don’t believe Jesus is who He says He is. So, they want to punish Him for His “crimes.” But they should really honor and worship Him. Jesus answers Pilate’s question, “ ‘You have said so’ ” (Mark 15:2, NIrV). Notice Jesus’ answer. Jesus doesn’t say that He is a king or is not a king. Jesus’ answer shows us that He is a king, but not the type of king that Pilate expects.

In Mark 15:9, 10, Pilate understands that the Jews bring Jesus to him because they are jealous of Him. But Pilate doesn’t see that he does what the Jewish leaders want when he asks the crowd who they want him to release: Jesus or the criminal Barabbas? The Jewish leaders get the crowd to shout for Pilate to send Jesus to die on a cross. Pilate is surprised. The cross was a terrible way to die. Worse, Pilate knew Jesus was innocent. So, we see more irony in this story, or something else that we didn’t expect: the Roman governor wants to save Jesus, while Jesus’ own people want to nail Him to the cross.