---
title:  Welcome, King of the Jews!
date:   16/09/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 15:15–20. What did the soldiers do to Jesus? What do their actions mean?`

The Romans beat prisoners to get them ready for death. First, the Romans removed all of the prisoner’s clothes. Next, they tied him to a pole. Then they beat him with ­leather whips. Pieces of bone, glass, stones, and nails were tied to the leather whips.

After Jesus was whipped, the soldiers continued to shame Him. The soldiers put purple clothes on Jesus. They placed a crown of thorns on His head. The soldiers made fun of Jesus for being the King of the Jews. This group of soldiers that hurt Jesus was named a battalion. A battalion has from 200 to 600 men.

As readers, we can see the irony in this story. You will remember that irony is when an experience or word in a story has two different meanings. Also, someone in the story doesn’t see the irony or different meanings. We see the irony in this story because we know what the soldiers don’t know: Jesus really is the King. The soldiers are making fun of Jesus when they say He is a king. But they announce the truth. The soldiers make fun of Jesus with words that they used to greet the King of Rome: “ ‘Welcome, King of the Jews!’ ” (Mark 15:18, ERV).

The soldiers also make fun of Jesus in other ways. They hit his head with a stick. They spit on Him. Then they kneel down and pretend to honor Him. The Greek language that Mark uses shows us that the soldiers do all three of these actions again and again. So, they keep hitting Jesus. They keep spitting on Him. They keep kneeling down in front of Him and making fun of Him. Jesus stays silent. He doesn’t say anything or show them any of His feelings.

The Romans made prisoners remove all their clothes and then carry their cross. Why did the Romans do this? They wanted to shame the person completely in front of the community. Mark 15:20 says that the soldiers removed the purple clothes from Jesus. But the Jews were against wearing no clothes in public. So, the Romans put Jesus’ own clothes back on Him.

Do you see all the irony in this story? The soldiers bow in “respect” to Jesus as King. But they do it to make fun of Him. The truth, or irony, is that Jesus really is King, and not just of the Jews. He is their King, too.