---
title:  Nailed to the Cross
date:   17/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 15:21–38. What terrible and painful irony do we read about in these verses? Remember, irony is an experience that happens in a way that is different from what you may expect.`

In this part of the story, Jesus is silent. People who want to kill Him are in control. Until Jesus’ arrest, He did many things to help people. Now people do whatever they want to Him and against Him. Jesus was a strong preacher who was in good health. But the beating the soldiers gave Him made Him so weak. The soldiers gave Him no food. They didn’t let Him sleep. All these things made Jesus feel weak. So, a stranger must carry His cross. At the cross, the soldiers remove Jesus’ clothes. His clothes become the property of the soldiers. The soldiers gamble to see who gets to own the clothes (compare with Psalm 22:18).

Death on a cross was not a very bloody death. Nails were used to fasten a person to the cross (compare with John 20:24–29). These nails went through the wrist below the palm of the hand where there were no big blood vessels. (In both the Hebrew and Greek language, the word for “hand” can mean both the hand and the lower part of the arm.) The soldiers didn’t put the nails in Jesus’ palms. The palm of the hand doesn’t have enough strength to hold the body up on the cross. The nails crushed the nerve that runs along the middle of Jesus’ arm and caused terrible suffering. Jesus had trouble breathing. To get a good breath, Jesus had to push against His nailed feet and squeeze His arms. This action caused Him awful pain. People often died on the cross because they were too tired and in too much pain to lift their bodies to get a breath.

All through the Book of Mark, Jesus tells people not to tell anyone who He is. So, Mark often doesn’t use Jesus’ other names: “Lord,” “Son of God,” or Savior. But on the cross, Jesus’ secret about who He is can no longer be hidden. The Jewish leaders are the ones who now use Jesus’ other names! The leaders say, “ ‘He saved others, but he can’t save himself!’ ” (Mark 15:31, ERV). The word “saved” also can mean “heal” and “remove someone from danger” in the Greek language. Do you see the irony in their words? When they say these words, the leaders show everyone they know that Jesus is the Savior. Jesus healed, saved, and removed people from danger. These actions are everything a Savior does.