---
title:  My God, My God, Why Have You Left Me Alone?
date:   18/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 15:33–41. What words does Jesus say on the cross in the Book of Mark? What does Jesus’ death mean for us all?`

The Book of Mark shows that the cross is a very dark place. Mark tells us, “About midday [12:00 noon] the whole land became dark and stayed dark for three hours” (Mark 15:33, WE). On the cross, Jesus prays. He cries out to God and asks why God has left Him all alone. Jesus’ words are a quote from Psalm 22:1. In Mark 15:24, 29, we see other quotes from this same psalm or song. These quotes show us that God is keeping all the promises He made about Jesus in the Old Testament. God’s plan for Jesus is happening, even when evil men put Jesus on the cross.

Mark tells us what Jesus says on the cross in the Aramaic language. Then Mark gives us the translation. The words written as “my God, my God” are “Eloi, Eloi.” “Eloi” comes from the word “'e lahi” in the Aramaic language. Some people who heard Jesus mis­understood what He said. These people thought that Jesus cried for Elijah, whose name means “My God is YHWH.” Elijah in the Aramaic language is “'eliyyah.”

Jesus’ death on the cross helps us remember His baptism, in Mark 1:9–11. The baptism of Jesus in Mark 1 is the start of Jesus’ work on earth. Daniel talks about this time in Daniel 9:24–27. When Jesus dies for our sins (Mark 10:45), He finishes what He came to do. Jesus’ death on the cross also shows us another part of Daniel’s special message in Daniel 9:24–27. The temple curtain is torn (Mark 15:38). This torn curtain shows us that the animal offerings for sins are no longer needed because Jesus offered Himself for our sins. A new time in the history of God’s plan to save humans now starts.

`Evil men tried to hurt and kill Jesus. But they did not stop God’s plan to save us. How does this information teach us that we always can trust God and His plan, even when evil happens all around us?`