---
title:  Jesus’ Body is Put in the Grave
date:   19/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 15:42–47. What does Joseph from Arimathea do for Jesus? Where were Jesus’ followers at this time? How important was Joseph’s gift?`

Dead people must be buried. A man named Joseph who is from Arimathea goes to Pilate. Joseph is a respected member of the Sanhedrin. Remember, the Sanhedrin is the Jewish court. Joseph was a rich and powerful man who lived in the city. As a rich and powerful man, Joseph knew Pontius Pilate, the Roman governor. So, now we understand why Joseph was brave enough to go to Pilate and ask for Jesus’ body. That Joseph asked to take care of Jesus’ body touches our hearts. But we must ask, Where were Jesus’ loyal followers at this time?

Mark 15:43 tells us that Joseph asks for Jesus’ body. But Pilate is surprised to hear that Jesus was already dead (Mark 15:44). Pilate ordered the head soldier in charge of nailing Jesus to the cross to give him a report. Another name for the head soldier is a centurion. Pilate asks the centurion if Jesus was already dead. The centurion said that, yes, Jesus was dead.

This information is important. Later, some people will say that Jesus didn’t really die on the cross. He fainted. The centurion’s report to the Roman governor is proof that the report about Jesus’ fainting is false. Of course Jesus really died and didn’t just faint! If the Romans knew how to do one thing, they knew how to kill criminals.

Joseph brought a sheet to wrap Jesus in. Then Joseph put Jesus’ body in a grave that was carved from a rock. This grave was big enough for a man to walk into (Mark 16:5). Mark 15:47 tells us that two women saw where Joseph put Jesus’ body. Those two women were Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joses. These two women, along with Salome, watched Jesus die on the cross. All three women will go to Jesus’ grave on Sunday morning to take care of His dead body (Mark 16:1).

Why does Mark tell us about these three women? They are witnesses. They saw Joseph put Jesus’ body in the grave. They will come back to the grave and find it empty. So, these women are important witnesses of Jesus’ resurrection, or waking up from the dead.