---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “In Pilate’s Judgment Hall,” “Calvary,” and “ ‘It Is Finished,’ ” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 723–764.

“Pilate very much wanted to save Jesus. But he saw he couldn’t do this without losing his own job and honor. Pilate didn’t want to lose his power as governor. So, he chose to let an innocent man die. How many people do the wrong thing to avoid loss or suffering, the same as Pilate? God’s Spirit tells us to do the right thing. But our selfish hearts want to do the wrong thing. The person who gives in to evil will be judged guilty.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 738, adapted.

“Jesus felt the guilt from all of our sins. Jesus is our Substitute. He is God’s Promise to us that He will forgive us and save us. Jesus was punished the same as a sinner so that He could save us from the punishment for breaking God’s law. Jesus felt the guilt of every sinner pressing on His heart. Jesus saw how much God hated sin. This thought filled Jesus’ heart with worry and fear. His whole life Jesus preached the Good News about the Father’s mercy and pardoning love. Jesus’ message was that God wanted to save the worst sinners. But now Jesus feels the terrible guilt of our sins on his heart. The guilt is so terrible that Jesus can’t see the Father’s loving face. The Father turns away His face from the Savior when Jesus is feeling the most pain. Sorrow fills Jesus’ heart. No human heart can fully understand the sorrow that Jesus felt at that time. Jesus’ sorrow was so painful that He hardly felt the pain that He suffered in His body.”—_The Desire of Ages_, page 753, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus is our Substitute. He died for us and paid the penalty for our sin. How important is this idea to our being saved? Why is any teaching false that rejects this Bible teaching?`

`Who or what is today’s Barabbas? Who or what do the people of this earth ask for instead of Jesus?`

`Review Daniel 9:24–27. Why is this chapter so important? Are you ready to give a Bible study on these verses to anyone who asks?`