---
title:  Jesus the Expert Teacher
date:   24/10/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Hebrews 1:1–4; John 1:14, 18.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “God said, ‘Let light shine out of darkness.’ (Genesis 1:3) He made his light shine in our hearts. His light gives us the light to know God’s glory. His glory is shown in the face of Christ” (2 Corinthians 4:6, NIrV).

**PASTOR BILLY GRAHAM** tells the story about the time he visited some soldiers at a hospital. The army general is there. One young soldier “is so badly hurt. The soldier lies on his stomach on a steel bed. His body is torn and crushed.” A doctor tells Graham about the soldier. The doctor talks softly so that the soldier will not hear what he says. The doctor sadly tells Graham, “ ‘I doubt this soldier will ever walk again.’ ” Then the soldier asks the general for a favor. The soldier tells the general: “ ‘Sir, . . . I fought for you. But I have never seen you. Can I see your face?” So, the general kneels down and slides under the steel bed. Then he talks with the soldier face-to-face. As Graham watches, a tear falls from the soldier onto the general’s cheek.

That soldier is a word picture for humans at the time when Jesus is born. When Jesus is born, humans are torn and crushed in spirit. They need to see God’s face the same as that soldier. God sent His Son, Jesus, to this planet. Jesus is the Expert Teacher. One of the jobs Jesus had was to show humans the face of God. Ever since, we have the blessing of seeing “God’s glory . . . in the face of Christ” (2 Corinthians 4:6, NIrV). As we watch the Expert Teacher make His way to earth, what can we learn from Him?

_When Jesus is born, humans lie torn and crushed in spirit. They need to see God’s face the same as the soldier._
