---
title:  "SHOWING THE FATHER: PART 1"
date:   25/10/2020
---

`Read Hebrews 1:1–4. What are the most important things that Paul tells us about Jesus in these verses?`

New Testament writers often talk about the same important idea: Jesus comes to earth to show us the Father. In the past, God showed Himself in part to His special messengers. In Jesus, we see the best picture of God.

Also, Jesus “the Son shows the glory of God” (Hebrews 1:3, ERV) to us. As sinners, we cannot look at the full glory of God. As the God-Man, Jesus shows us God’s glory so that we can look at it and not die. Jesus’ human body is the same as a covering. It helps to protect us from God’s full glory. God’s glory shines from Jesus to us. Then we see part of God’s glory and understand who God is.

Jesus also is “an exact copy of God’s nature [God’s thoughts and feelings]” (Hebrews 1:3, ICB). The word for “copy” comes from the Greek word “charactēr.” “Character” is the mark that a stamp makes when it is pressed into hot wax. “Character” also meant the face of someone that was stamped on a coin. So, this word helps us to see that Jesus “the Son is as God is in every way” (Hebrews 1:3, NLV).

If we wish to know the Father, we must learn what Jesus, the Expert Teacher, says about Him. We must watch the Master Teacher too. We see the Father in the Son.

`Compare Hebrews 1:1–4 with 2 Corinthians 4:1–6. In 2 Corinthians 4:1–6, who is Jesus? What do we learn from Him?`

Paul and his coworkers try to show people the Father the same as Jesus did. Jesus is “the likeness [an exact copy] of God” (2 Corinthians 4:4, NIrV). Jesus brought us knowledge about God the Father. When God made the earth, He used light to make the darkness go away. In the same way, God gave us His Son, Jesus, to put an end to false ideas and views about Him. God sent Jesus to show us the truth about God too. It is in “the face of Christ [Jesus]” that we see the best picture of God (2 Corinthians 4:6, NIrV).

`Jesus showed us the Father. God asks us to “follow his example” and show who He is to people too (Ephesians 5:1, NIrV). What does it mean to follow God’s example? What can we learn from Jesus about how to do this?`

_Jesus shows us the best picture of God._
