---
title:  'Showing The Father: Part 2'
date:  26/10/2020
---

In John 1:1–18, John says that Jesus is the everlasting “Word.” What does John mean? Jesus’ life has no limits. Jesus has been alive forever. Jesus made every good thing (John 1:2, 3). He is the “Light for men” (John 1:4, NLV). Jesus is “the true light that gives light to everyone” (John 1:9, NIrV).

`What does it mean for us that Jesus became a human? What answer does John give us in John 1:14, 18? What light did Jesus bring? What was so special about Jesus that made it possible for Him to do this?`

“Jesus is the Light. He came to this earth when evil on this earth was at its worst. . . .

“Humans had only one hope. . . . The knowledge of God must be given back to fallen humans.

“Jesus came to this earth to bring humans this knowledge. Jesus came to get rid of the false teaching that showed to humans a wrong picture about God. This false teaching was taught by the very ones who said they knew who God was. Jesus came to show the meaning of God’s law. Jesus came to show us by His behavior the beauty of God’s holy life.”—Ellen G. White, Education, pages 74–76, adapted.

Everything Jesus did in this life was “to show God so that humans can become the same as God in their hearts.”—Education, page 82, adapted.

`Jesus Himself says, “ ‘Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father too’ ” (John 14:9, ERV). What was happening when Jesus said this in John 14:1–14? Who was He talking to? Why did He say this?`

It is easy to think that Philip’s words are foolish (John 14:8). Philip spent many years in close friendship with Jesus. But Philip fails to understand a very important part of why Jesus came to this earth: Jesus came to show the Father’s love. Maybe teachers today can feel some encouragement when they remember that Jesus’ student showed that he did not learn Jesus’ lessons well! And maybe that’s why John wrote what Philip said. Not so that we will think the worst about him but to give us the chance to look at what is in our hearts. How long have we walked with Jesus? Have we understood Jesus any better than Philip?