---
title:  LEARNING FROM JESUS
date:   27/10/2020
---

`Read Philippians 2:1–4 and Philippians 4:2, 3. As these verses show, what is in Paul’s heart when he writes his letter to the Christians in Philippi?`

Philippians 2:1–11 is one of the most important messages in the whole Bible. These verses talk about Jesus. Paul says that Jesus always has been alive. Jesus is God. Jesus came to this earth. He was born as a human. He died on the cross. Paul talks about the long, difficult trip that Jesus made from heaven to Calvary (Philippians 2:5–8). Paul also tells us how the Father announces that everyone in heaven and earth should worship Jesus (Philippians 2:9–11). We learn many wonderful Bible truths in these verses.

`How does Paul start Philippians 2:5–11? What does he say exactly? Now read Philippians 2:6–11. Paul talks about the different things that Jesus did during His life on earth. Which parts of Jesus’ life do you think Paul expects believers to show in their own lives?`

The believers at Philippi often argue. So, Paul hopes that they will learn from Jesus’ life on earth. Paul says, “He put aside everything that belonged to Him and made Himself the same as a servant who is owned by someone. He became human by being born as a man” (Philippians 2:7, NLV). Jesus emptied His heart of all pride. He accepted death in our place on the cross because He loved us so much. How much more should we empty our hearts of all pride and serve each other with love?

Jesus, the Expert Teacher, has many lessons for us. We learn from His sermons. We learn from His miracles. His love shows us how to be kind to other people. Jesus gives up the glory He has in heaven so that He can be born in a feeding box for sheep. This is a powerful lesson for us!

Most people brag about the things they do. But we learn a different lesson from a feeding box in Bethlehem. God’s plan for teaching and for saving sinners has nothing to do with bragging. No, we must empty our hearts of all pride. Then we must become servants to other people.

`Are you having a hard time with someone? What if you emptied your heart of all pride? How do you think that this will give you a powerful chance to show Jesus to this person?`

_Jesus gives up the glory He has in heaven so that He can be born in a feeding box for sheep. This is a powerful lesson for us!_
