---
title:  Healing Broken Friendships 
date:  28/10/2020
---

Friendships all too often fall apart. We become strangers. The person we trusted becomes someone we do not trust. But broken friendships can be fixed. When that happens, it is a beautiful miracle. Another name for fixing broken friendships is reconciliation. Reconciliation is bringing people into peace with each other. Few human experiences are as sweet as reconciliation.

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:16–21. As we see in these verses, how is healing broken friendships part of Jesus’ decision to be born as a Man? How is this healing work part of Jesus’ job as our Expert Teacher too?`

We feel happy when our broken friendships are healed. How much happier should we feel when Jesus brings us back to God? In 2 Corinthians 5:16–21, Paul shows that the Father Himself leads out in fixing our broken friendship with Him. Jesus made this work possible by His “death on the cross” (2 Corinthians 5:18, NIrV). “God was in Christ [Jesus], making peace between the world [sinners] and himself” (2 Corinthians 5:19, ERV).

We must learn from Jesus how to make peace with people. When He was born as a human, Jesus healed broken hearts and friendships. God also invites us to take part in this same work. God the Father has brought us back to Himself by His Son. “And God gave us the work of bringing people into peace with him” (2 Corinthians 5:18, ERV).

Colossians 1:15–20 also talks about Jesus’ work as a human. Colossians 1:15–17 talks about Jesus’ work in making the earth. Colossians 1:18–20 talks about Jesus’ work in saving us from sin. Jesus is the One who made us and saves us. These two things make it possible for God to bring all things into peace with Himself.

God’s healing work is big. It happens on heaven and earth. God invites us to join Him in “the work of bringing people into peace with him” (2 Corinthians 5:18, ERV). Maybe this is what Jesus meant when he prayed, “ ‘You sent me into the world [people on the earth]. In the same way, I have sent them into the world’ ” (John 17:18, NIrV).

`How can we help the people in our lives to be at peace with each other?`