---
title:  JESUS’ FIRST STUDENTS
date:   29/10/2020
---

One day, the men are ordinary shepherds taking care of sheep outside a small town. The next day, the shepherds get a surprising visit from angels. The angels tell them news that will change history on this planet forever. The shepherds’ hearts are touched. They go right away to find the Child that angels told them about.

`Read Luke 2:8–20. Make a picture in your mind of yourself standing with the shepherds in these verses. You are looking into the feeding box. What do you see?`

We must admire the first students of Jesus, the Expert Teacher. Who were these first students? Joseph and Mary and the shepherds, of course! Jesus is not born in a palace. The place where He is born does not show us the truth about this Baby. He is God Himself. As a Baby, He has become One with humans. But God sends dreams, visions, and angels to help human eyes to know who Jesus really is. Then the shepherds tell people the wonderful news that “ ‘Today your Savior was born in David’s town. He is the Messiah, the Lord’ ” (Luke 2:11, ERV; compare Luke 2:17).

`Read Matthew 2:1–12. What do the Wise Men do when they learn the news that Jesus is born? What does Herod do?`

Before Jesus does any miracle or preaches His first sermon, people worship Him. Why? Because of who He is. The Wise Men worship Jesus. We must join them in their worship if we want fully to understand Jesus’ teachings later on. We admire Jesus because He is the Expert Teacher. But He is more than a wise Teacher. He is God. As God, He came to live with humans as a Man. Christian education starts with our worship of Jesus.

With the Wise Men, shepherds, and angels, we must worship Jesus, the newborn King. In Jesus, we see the truth about God Himself: that He loves us and wants to save us.

`Think about what Jesus’ being born as a Baby helps us to understand about God’s love. Jesus is the One who made everything: the stars and all the planets. We cannot fully understand His power. This same God came to this earth and died for our sins. Why is this news so wonderful?`

_The angels tell the shepherds the wonderful news: “ ‘Today your Savior was born in David’s town. He is the Messiah, the Lord.’ ”_
