---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/10/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Teacher Sent From God,” pages 73–83, in Education.

“Jesus is the Teacher sent to this earth from God. Jesus is the center of all education. Jesus told us things about Himself almost 2,000 years ago. These words are as true today about education as they were when Jesus first said them:

“ ‘I am the First and the Last. I am the one who lives’ ” [Revelation 1:17, 18, ERV].

“ ‘I am the Alpha [first letter in the Greek alphabet] and the Omega [last letter in the Greek alphabet], the Beginning and the End’ ” [Revelation 21:6, ERV].

“Jesus gives us a wonderful chance to learn from Him. So what can be worse than trying to get an education separate from Him? Can we be wise when we separate from Jesus who is Wisdom? Can we be true when we turn away from Jesus who is Truth? Can we find knowledge or light when we separate from Jesus who is the Light? Can we live without the One who is Life? Can we turn from the well of living Waters, who is Jesus, and drink out of broken jugs that can hold no water?

“Look, Jesus continues to invite us: ‘Whoever is thirsty may come to me and drink. If anyone believes in me, rivers of living water will flow out from their heart’ [John 7:37, 38, ERV], John 4:14.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 83, adapted.

“I want to help you get ready for the work God gives you to do. So, I will show you the words, the life, the teaching plan of the Prince of Teachers, Jesus. I ask you to learn from Him. He is your best Example. Look at Him. Think about Him. Keep doing this until the Spirit of the Holy Teacher will control your heart and life.

“ ‘We all show the Lord’s glory, and we are being changed to be like him. This change in us brings more and more glory. And it comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit.’ ” 2 Corinthians 3:18 [ICB].

“This is the secret to having the power to change your students’ lives for the better.”—Education, page 282, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The Bible truth about Jesus becoming human is important for teachers and students to carefully study. What beliefs can they learn from it? How should this teaching change what they believe and do?`

`Christian parents and teachers must show the love of God. This love is shown in Jesus’ coming to this earth as a Baby. Sometimes we fail to show this love. What should we do when we fail?`

`In class, talk about the question at the end of Thursday’s study. Jesus was born, lived, and died for us. What do these Bible truths teach us about the love that is in God’s heart? How do these teachings show us who God is? Why should these teachings comfort us during hard times and tests of faith?`