---
title: 'When God’s Glory Fills The Earth With Light'
date: 17/06/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Thessalonians 5:1–6; John 8:32; Revelation 18:1; Revelation 4:11; Revelation 5:6, 8, 12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “After that I saw another angel coming down from the sky. He had much power [might]. The bright light that shone from him lit up the earth” (Revelation 18:1, WE).

Sooner or later, the end-time happenings that the Bible talks about will come. We don’t know when or how everything will happen. But we know enough to see the big picture. We know that a law will be made that will force people to worship on Sunday. This law will reject the fourth commandment. The book of Revelation shows us the most important things that will happen in the end times. Everyone whose name isn’t written in the book of life will worship the sea animal and his false god. Everyone who chooses to follow the Lord Jesus Christ and obey His law will have their names written in the book of life. Their names will not be removed. Who cares if we have honor or fame in this life if we have everlasting life with God?

God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church to preach His final message of mercy to everyone on this earth. So, we need to know Bible truth. More than that, we need to be changed by Bible truth. Our lives need to be made new by the Good News about Jesus (read Revelation 14:6). The Good News is a message about Jesus’ death for us, His forgiveness, and His mercy to save us from our sins.