---
title: 'Getting Ready For The Final Fight'
date: 18/06/2023
---

`Read 1 Thessalonians 5:1–6. What warning does Paul give us about the final days of human history?`

Paul wrote to church members in Thessalonica (a city in Greece) about the Second Coming. Paul told the Christians to “watch and keep your minds awake to what is happening” (1 Thessalonians 5:6, NLV). Paul gave this advice to Christians in his day. So, what would Paul say to us today?

Paul also told church members that they were “people who belong to the light” (1 Thessalonians 5:5, ERV). Church members “are not living in darkness. And so that day [the Second Coming of Christ] will not surprise you like a thief” (1 Thessalonians 5:4, ERV). Jesus used the word “watch” when He talked about prayer (Matthew 24:42; Matthew 26:40, 41, NIrV). “To watch” means to understand Bible truth. It means we will be wise about the times we are living in and think about the things that are most important.

Ellen G. White adds: “We know Bible truth about the end times. So, we should get ready for what is soon to happen. What will happen will surprise most of the people on this earth.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 8, page 28, adapted.

What will happen will surprise most people, but it should not surprise Seventh-day Adventists. We don’t know when the final test will come or how it will happen. But we can see enough to know that the test is coming. Today, now, is the best time to get ready and to be ready.

`Read about the worldwide kingdoms in Daniel 2. Make a list of the kingdoms that came and went. Everything happened just as God said it would happen. What should this list teach us about how we can trust God’s promises about the future?`

Jesus gave us messages about the end times so that we can get ready for His coming. The special messages about time in Daniel, Revelation, and from Ellen G. White show us what will happen in the future.

`Paul says not to “sleep” as other people do. What do you think “sleep” is a word picture for? How do we know if we are “sleeping” or if we are really “awake”? If we are “asleep,” what do we need to do to “wake up”?`