---
title: 'Knowing Bible Truth'
date: 19/06/2023
---

`Read John 8:32; John 7:17; and John 17:17. What promises about wisdom and understanding does Jesus give us in these verses? Where do we find spiritual truth?`

God’s final message to His people warns them to reject the false teachings of spiritual Babylon. God invites them to accept Bible truth. Bible truth is everlasting. As long as we trust the Bible and its teachings, we will not be tricked by Satan in the final test. We will not be tricked by his lie about the Sabbath.

The second angel of Revelation 14 invites us to accept his message. His message tells us to accept Bible truth and not to believe false teachings and Satan’s lies.

The third angel warns about the sea animal’s mark. As we have seen, an animal in Revelation is a word picture for a kingdom or a religious power. The sea animal of Revelation 13 and 14 grows out of the kingdom of Rome. Then the sea-animal power gets worldwide control of the Christian church during the Dark Ages. In the future, this new religious kingdom of Rome will join with the governments on this earth. This worldwide religious power will try to bring everyone on earth under its control at a time when there will be terrible disasters and wars.

The United States will become the leader in this worldwide plan to bring everyone on earth under the control of the sea-animal power. “Satan will use two false teachings to get control of people’s minds. The first false teaching is the lie that the spirit lives forever. The second false teaching is Satan’s lie that Sunday is holy. The first lie causes people to accept the false teaching that the dead can communicate with us. The second lie causes people to respect the Roman Catholic Church. The Protestants in the United States will have an important part in Satan’s work. The Protestant churches, the Roman Catholic Church, and the people who believe that the dead can communicate with us will join together in agreement. This three-part group will lead the United States government to behave the same way Rome behaved in the Middle Ages. They will hurt anyone who wants to follow Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 588, adapted.