---
title: 'The Change For The Better Continues'
date: 20/06/2023
---

God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church. God gave this church a special message for the end times. This message continues to do the work done by other Christians in the past. These Christians worked to make things better in the church. They chose Jesus as their Savior. He is the only One who can save humans. These Christians from the past also believed the Holy Spirit was the One who gave them strength against sin and Satan. These Christians also hoped for Jesus to come back. In the end times, we will continue the work of these Christians. We will announce many Bible truths that other Christians have forgotten and no longer know anything about. One of these Bible truths is the Sabbath.

The Three Angels’ Messages and the special messages in Revelation show us our work as a church. We will announce God’s final message of mercy to the people on a dying planet. Revelation 14 shows a worldwide church that shares the Good News about Jesus with everyone on the earth.

In Revelation 14, we see three angels. Then, in Revelation 18, we read about a 4th angel. The 4th angel adds strength to the announcement of the first three angels. This message will be the same as a bright light that shines on the whole earth (Revelation 18:1). Revelation 18 talks about the big things that happen before human history ends. Then the Good News about Jesus will win against Satan’s lies.

`Read about the fourth angel in Revelation 18:1. What three things does John tell us about the fourth angel? (Read also Habakkuk 2:14.)`

The angel comes down from God’s throne room. God gives this angel a special message. This angel must announce God’s final message of mercy again and warn the people on the earth about what will happen.

The fourth angel has “much power [strength]” (Revelation 18:1, NLV). The New Testament word for “power” is “exousia” in the Greek language. Jesus uses this word. In Matthew 10:1, Jesus gives His followers “power” when He sends them to do His work. Jesus gives them strength over evil. In Matthew 28:18, 19, Jesus sends them out again. This time, Jesus sends them with “all power” in heaven and on earth to make more followers for Him.