---
title: 'God Fills The Whole Earth With His Light'
date: 21/06/2023
---

`Read about God’s glory in Revelation 4:11; Revelation 5:12; and Revelation 19:1. In Revelation 18:1, God’s glory is the same as a shining light that fills the whole earth. What else do these verses tell us about God’s glory?`

The worldwide war between good and evil is about God’s honor. Satan blamed God for not being fair. Satan says that God commands us to worship Him but that He doesn’t give us anything. Satan says that God’s law limits our freedom and our joy.

Jesus’ life, death, and waking up from the dead show us that Satan’s words are lies. Jesus came to this planet full of sin that is the same as a pit filled with snakes. Jesus came to save us. On the cross, Jesus showed that Satan’s words against God were lies. Jesus also showed that God is both loving and fair. As God’s end-time people, we show His glory. What is His glory? His glory is His love. We show God’s love to a planet filled with selfish people. In that way, the whole earth is filled with God’s glory.

`How does God show His mercy to Moses? Read Exodus 33:18, 19 for the answer. How do these verses show us what God’s glory is?`

As we just saw, God’s glory is His love. We must be filled with God’s love. Our lives must be changed by God’s saving love. Then the earth will be filled with the glory of God.

When we show God’s love in our personal lives, we show God’s glory to the people around us. We will announce God’s final message to a planet that is filled with sin and evil. We will do the work of the three angels who fly across the sky. Their message is: “ ‘Fear God and give him praise’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). This is our message, too. We must announce this message to everyone on earth.

“God’s people must give His message about His saving mercy to everyone on earth. . . . This is the Third Angel’s Message. When we finish giving this message, then the whole earth will be filled with God’s glory.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, page 19, adapted.