---
title: 'The Lamb That Was Killed'
date: 22/06/2023
---

The book of Revelation uses many word pictures or symbols. We read about the dragon in heaven (Revelation 12:3, 4, 7). There are angels flying in the sky (Revelation 14:6). There is a woman who rides a red animal (Revelation 17:3). We read about these word pictures in the Bible. The Holy Spirit told John to include these word pictures in the Bible. These word pictures show us important Bible truth about the end times.

There is another word picture that we see often in the book of Revelation. What is this word picture? What does it show us?

`Read Revelation 5:6, 8, 12; Revelation 7:17; Revelation 14:1; Revelation 15:3; Revelation 19:7; Revelation 21:22, 23; and Revelation 22:1, 3. What does the word picture of the Lamb mean? Why does this word picture appear so many times in the book of Revelation?`

The first verse of the book of Revelation tells us what this book is about. This book shows us Jesus Christ. Jesus is the Lamb. He is not just any lamb. He is the Lamb who was killed (Revelation 5:6, 12; Revelation 13:8). The Lamb shows us our Savior who died on the cross for us. This Bible truth is the most important teaching of the Bible, the Three Angels’ Messages, and the book of Revelation. We can’t do the work God asks us to do if we don’t make the Lamb the most important part of our message.

“Jesus is the Lamb who was killed for our sins. We must make this Bible truth the most important part of our teachings and of our work for God. We also must make this Bible truth the most important part of our sermons, articles, prayers, songs, Bible studies, and everything we do. Jesus showed His love for us on the cross. This love must change the way we behave. This love must make us more loving to other people. Then we will care for the people around us on this earth.”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages” (from an unpublished paper), page 70, adapted.

`We must make Jesus, the Lamb, the most important part of our message. How will talking about Jesus help us lead other people to accept the message? How will doing this help us?`