---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 23/06/2023
---

“God’s servants will go from place to place. Their faces will shine with light. They will announce God’s message from heaven. Thousands of people all over the earth will give the final warning. God’s people will do miracles. They will heal the sick. God will show signs and wonders as proof. This proof will help the people on the earth know that the work God’s people do is from Him. Satan also will do work. He will show wonders and miracles, too. People will see these works and think they are from God. But that is a lie. Satan will bring fire from heaven down to the earth. Revelation 13:13. Everyone on earth must choose the one they will believe and serve.

“God’s followers will convince people that their message is from God. But they will not win hearts with their reasons and smart words. The Holy Spirit Himself will convince people that the message is from heaven. God’s followers will help Him share His message. His followers will plant this message the same as a seed in people’s hearts. The message will grow in people’s hearts the same as a plant that grows fruit. Bible workers wrote about this Bible truth. Their small books did their job. Many people read about the message. But they didn’t understand everything they read at the time. So, they didn’t obey right away. Now these people understand Bible truth. They separate from everything that keeps them from being obedient to Bible truth. Their family members and church members can’t stop them from obeying God. Bible truth is more important to them than anything else. Many people try to stop these new believers from obeying God. But a large number of people accept Bible truth and join the Lord.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 612, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the connection between God’s saving mercy and the Three Angels’ Messages?`

`Read Revelation 14:12 again. This verse talks about obedience. What is different between following the commandments and trying to earn God’s mercy with your own good behavior?`

`In class talk about things that are happening worldwide that you learn about on the news. What things have you seen happen that could help lead to final end-time happenings?`