---
title:  All Things
date:  23/09/2020
---

#### inVite

Colossians 1 is one of the most profound and sublime chapters of the New Testament. Paul seems limited in words to talk about the divinity of Christ. In verse 9, he starts the section on the preeminence of Christ by describing His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. In verse 11, Paul continues the theme of all when describing Christ’s might and patience. Though the apostle does not use the word all, his use of the ideas of light, darkness, love, and sin bring out the comprehensiveness of Christ’s salvation.

Paul then pens a great Christocentric hymn, in which Christ is “the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature” (Col. 1:15). Jesus is the best reflection of divinity and the best representation of all humanity. All things were created by Him and for Him. Christ is He who made and that which creations were made for. All things come after Him and all things are sustained by Him! Jesus is the Head of the church on earth and the fullness of the Godhead in heaven. And by Him all things are resolved.

What else can be said about Christ? He is the first of all things! He made all things! He solves all things! Paul’s point is that his readers should be speechless. There is no issue, no problem, no dispute, no difficulty, not obstruction that is not included in all things. What is to be our response to this? Nothing but speechless praise.

Undoubtedly, this quarter’s lessons on discipleship have addressed many areas of the individual’s spiritual life and church life where problems may abound. But at the end of the day, we are to bow our heads before the “firstborn over all creation” and surrender our scenarios, episodes, narratives, our lives over to Him, allowing victory in all things. Beyond church growth, discipleship programs, and objectives of evangelism, the simple question must be answered: Have we made Jesus Christ the Lord of all things?

``