src/en/2019-02-er/09/01.md, before:

---
title: 'Times Of Loss'
date: 25/05/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Mark 5:22–24; 1 Peter 5:6, 7; Genesis 37:17–28; Luke 16:13; 1 Corinthians 15:26.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Even more than that, I think of everything as worth nothing. It is so much better to know Christ Jesus my Lord. I have lost everything for Him. And I think of these things as worth nothing so that I can have Christ” (Philippians 3:8, NLV).

**WHAT HAPPENED WHEN ADAM AND EVE** ate the forbidden fruit? They lost their perfect life. They became selfish. They blamed each other. They were mad at each other. They wanted to control each other too.

After the Fall, Adam and Eve saw death for the first time. They saw beautiful flowers die. Then, God used the skins of animals to make clothes for Adam and Eve. God said Adam and Eve were not allowed to eat from the tree of life anymore. Adam and Eve also lost their perfect garden home. Years later, they lost their son Abel. Cain, their other son, killed him. Adam and Eve were deeply sad. Then finally, after many long years of life, one of them died. Did Adam die first? Or Eve? The Bible does not say. But one of them was left to live alone. Look at all the loss that came from just one wrong choice!

Yes, we all know that loss hurts us. Loss is very real. Most of us feel the most pain when we lose someone in our family. 

This week, we will continue to look at family life. We will look at the different times of loss in the family.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/09/01.md, after:

---
title: 'Times Of Loss'
date: 25/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Mark 5:22–24; 1 Peter 5:6, 7; Genesis 37:17–28; Luke 16:13; 1 Corinthians 15:26.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Even more than that, I think of everything as worth nothing. It is so much better to know Christ Jesus my Lord. I have lost everything for Him. And I think of these things as worth nothing so that I can have Christ” (Philippians 3:8, NLV).

**WHAT HAPPENED WHEN ADAM AND EVE** ate the forbidden fruit? They lost their perfect life. They became selfish. They blamed each other. They were mad at each other. They wanted to control each other too.

After the Fall, Adam and Eve saw death for the first time. They saw beautiful flowers die. Then, God used the skins of animals to make clothes for Adam and Eve. God said Adam and Eve were not allowed to eat from the tree of life anymore. Adam and Eve also lost their perfect garden home. Years later, they lost their son Abel. Cain, their other son, killed him. Adam and Eve were deeply sad. Then finally, after many long years of life, one of them died. Did Adam die first? Or Eve? The Bible does not say. But one of them was left to live alone. Look at all the loss that came from just one wrong choice!

Yes, we all know that loss hurts us. Loss is very real. Most of us feel the most pain when we lose someone in our family. 

This week, we will continue to look at family life. We will look at the different times of loss in the family.
