---
title: 'Loss Of Health'
date: 26/05/2019
---

It has been a long time since Adam and Eve ate fruit from the tree of life. Our sick and weak bodies show just how long it has been! Sooner or later, we all grow old and die. Many of us lose our health along the way too.

It is painful to lose your health. But it is even more painful when we watch someone we love grow sick. Are you a parent whose child is sick? Maybe you wished you were the one who was sick, not your child. But God does not give us that choice.

`Read the stories in Mark 5:22–24, 35–43; Matthew 15:22–28; Luke 4:38, 39; and John 4:46–54. What is the same about all these stories?`

In each story, we see a family member asking Jesus to help someone in their families.

Yes, we feel pain because of sin. Sin brought death. But sin also brought pain and sickness too. We may feel angry. We may even want to shout, “My God, my God, why have you left me alone? You are too far away to save me. You are too far away to hear my moans [cries for help]” (Psalm 22:1, ICB). David took his questions, anger, and pain to God. We should do the same thing.

We will never really understand sickness until Jesus finally beats death at His Second Coming. But while we wait for that to happen, we can learn some important truths about pain and sickness from the Bible. Job’s pain was awful. But it helped him grow closer to God. Job explains: “ ‘In the past I heard about you, but now I have seen you with my own eyes’ ” (Job 42:5, ERV). Paul was in pain for a long time. The way he behaved shows us that our suffering can make us better people. Our pain can help us learn how to comfort other people in pain too. Pain also can teach us how to be loving to other people who are hurting. Pain can help us to be better servants for God too (2 Corinthians 1:3–5). But we must be careful. We must not let our pain break our hold on God.

`What promises can we hold onto in faith when we or other people are suffering? Why is Jesus’ pain on the cross very important to us during these times? What does the Cross teach us about God’s love? Why does His love never fail us when we are sick?`