src/en/2019-02-er/09/03.md, before:

---
title: 'Loss Of Trust Part 1'
date: 27/05/2019
---

Have you ever broken someone’s trust? Or has someone ever broken a promise to you? It is hard to trust again when someone lies to us or breaks a promise. It hurts when we feel we cannot trust that person anymore. It is bad when a friend breaks our trust. But it is worse when a family member hurts us. 

Sometimes, it seems that the easiest thing to do is run away from the person who hurt us. We may think that building trust again is too much work. What happens when the person who hurt you is a family member? Or even your own husband or wife? It is even harder to forgive and trust that person again, right? But marriage can teach us an impor-tant lesson. It can teach us how to build trust again.

`When your trust is broken, how can you save your friendship or marriage? How can you heal and learn to trust again? For the answers, read 1 Peter 5:6, 7; 1 John 4:18; James 5:16; and Matthew 6:14, 15.`

Learning to trust again is the same as going on a long trip. You must take one step at a time. The trip starts with the truth. You must be honest about what you did to hurt someone or what someone did to hurt you.

When someone cheats on you, what is the first step you must take to heal? The person who cheated must confess to you what he or she did wrong. Then that person must be willing to be honest and open with you about what happened. He or she must not lie about anything or hide the truth. More lies will destroy the trust you are trying to build again. And the second time your trust is broken, it will be even harder to heal than the first time. 

Building trust again takes time. You must be patient. The worse the sin, the longer it will take for your heart to heal. Sometimes you will feel that you are not healing at all! One day, you will be filled with hope. Then the next day, you will want to give up and run away. But many people have been able to rebuild broken marriages. With God’s help, their marriages have become stronger and even happier than before. 

`How can your healing a marriage help you heal other connections with people that are broken?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/09/03.md, after:

---
title: 'Loss Of Trust Part 1'
date: 27/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Have you ever broken someone’s trust? Or has someone ever broken a promise to you? It is hard to trust again when someone lies to us or breaks a promise. It hurts when we feel we cannot trust that person anymore. It is bad when a friend breaks our trust. But it is worse when a family member hurts us. 

Sometimes, it seems that the easiest thing to do is run away from the person who hurt us. We may think that building trust again is too much work. What happens when the person who hurt you is a family member? Or even your own husband or wife? It is even harder to forgive and trust that person again, right? But marriage can teach us an impor-tant lesson. It can teach us how to build trust again.

`When your trust is broken, how can you save your friendship or marriage? How can you heal and learn to trust again? For the answers, read 1 Peter 5:6, 7; 1 John 4:18; James 5:16; and Matthew 6:14, 15.`

Learning to trust again is the same as going on a long trip. You must take one step at a time. The trip starts with the truth. You must be honest about what you did to hurt someone or what someone did to hurt you.

When someone cheats on you, what is the first step you must take to heal? The person who cheated must confess to you what he or she did wrong. Then that person must be willing to be honest and open with you about what happened. He or she must not lie about anything or hide the truth. More lies will destroy the trust you are trying to build again. And the second time your trust is broken, it will be even harder to heal than the first time. 

Building trust again takes time. You must be patient. The worse the sin, the longer it will take for your heart to heal. Sometimes you will feel that you are not healing at all! One day, you will be filled with hope. Then the next day, you will want to give up and run away. But many people have been able to rebuild broken marriages. With God’s help, their marriages have become stronger and even happier than before. 

`How can your healing a marriage help you heal other connections with people that are broken?`
