---
title:  "LOSS OF TRUST—PART 2"
date:   28/05/2019
---

What breaks our trust in our families? Our trust is broken when a family member hurts our bodies. Family members hurt other family members when they hit them, touch them in the wrong way, or say mean things. Then the hurt family members no longer feel safe in their own homes. Scientists say that the home is the most dangerous place on earth! Sadly, many Christian homes are dangerous places. 

**The Bible includes stories about families who hurt other family members. What do you think about these stories? How do they make you feel? Why do you think God put these stories in the Bible?**

`Genesis 37:17–28`

`2 Samuel 13:1–22`

`2 Kings 16:3; 2 Kings 17:17; 2 Kings 21:6`

Why do some people beat and hit other people? Or touch them in the wrong way? They do it because they want to control people. This behavior is evil. There is no excuse for it. Drinking, stress, sex, or anger are not excuses for bad behavior. Do not blame the person that was hurt either. The people who get hurt do not cause their attackers to hurt them. People who hurt others twist love. That is wrong. “Love [does not] hurt others [people]” (Romans 13:10, ERV). People who beat or hit other people are sick. They need help. But they cannot change until they go get help. First, they must say that they have a problem. Then they must open their hearts to God. God can help them to stop hurting other people. He can help attackers to stop their bad behavior. God will help these people make things right with the people they hurt. God’s love will heal their evil hearts. Then God will help them to love other people in the right way (read Ephesians 3:20).

`What words of comfort and hope can you share with someone who has been beaten? Why is it very impor-tant to help that person feel safe and cared for?`