---
title: 'When We Lose Our Freedom'
date: 29/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God is the only One who knows how many people fight against a bad habit. Do you know that scientists can see the part of our brain where our bad habits are located? But scientists do not know exactly what causes our bad habits. Our knowing where our bad habits are located in the brain is not the same thing as freeing us from those habits.

Bad habits are hard on everyone. Not just the person who has the bad habit. Our bad habits hurt our family members. They hurt our parents, our husbands or wives, and our children. Every member of a family suffers when someone in the family is controlled by a bad habit.

What are some bad habits? Drugs, drinking, smoking, sex, even food. But what makes these habits bad? The answer is that the people doing these things cannot stop. They know their behavior is hurting them. But they keep doing it anyway. Then they become slaves to the bad habit. In the end, they lose their freedom. Peter explains what bad habits are. Bad habits are the same as false teachers who “promise to give freedom to these new believers” (2 Peter 2:19, NIrV). But these teachers are slaves to sin. Peter warns us that “people are slaves to anything that controls them” (2 Peter 2:19, NIrV).

`What things can cause people to start bad habits? For the answers, read Luke 16:13; Romans 6:16; James 1:13–15; and 1 John 2:16.`

Sin and bad habits are not always the same things. You can do something that is a sin. But it is not a bad habit. True, if you do that sin enough times, the sin can become a bad habit. That is why we should ask God to help us stop the sin before it turns into a bad habit. The only real answer to sin and bad habits is a new heart. Only God can give us that. “Those [people] who belong to Christ Jesus have nailed their sinful [full of sin] desires [wishes] to his cross. They don’t [do not] want these things anymore” (Galatians 5:24, NIrV). What does it mean to nail our old selves and habits to the cross? Paul explains: “Let every part of you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. Do not allow your weak thoughts to lead you into sinful [wrong] actions” (Romans 13:14, NLV). So, we must do what Paul says. We must nail our bad habits to the cross. Then we can live for Jesus (Romans 6:8–13). 