src/en/2019-02-er/09/06.md, before:

---
title: 'Loss Of Life'
date: 30/05/2019
---

As humans, we know death is real. We read about death. We see death. Maybe we almost died when we were young.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:26. How does this verse explain what death is? Why does this verse talk about death in this way?`

Death is an enemy. We learn this hard truth for ourselves when someone we love dies. But in a way, those who died believing in Jesus are much better off than we are. Why? Because they no longer feel sad or feel any pain. When God wakes them from the dead, the next thing they will see is Jesus. “Death is not a problem for the believer. . . . Death is the same as sleep. It is a short time of silence and darkness. While we live, Jesus makes us one with God. Now ‘Christ [Jesus] is your life. When he comes again, you will share in his glory’ [Colossians 3:4, ICB].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 787, adapted.

This life of pain and sorrow ends for everyone who dies. But the living continue to feel sad because of death. 

It is normal to feel sad when someone we love dies. But not everyone will feel sad in the same way when someone they love dies. The first thing that most people feel is shock. They may have trouble accepting the death. Shock is really your mind’s way of trying to protect you from what happened. Shock may last up to two or three months. After the shock is over, you may think about your loved one all the time. This time may last from six months to a year.

Then you will feel deep sadness. This feeling can last for a very long time. It can be the most painful time of all. During this time, you slowly learn to accept the loss of your loved one. You may feel many different things at this time: anger, guilt, sorrow, sadness, and worry. Do not try to get rid of all your pain or your memories. That is not your goal or purpose. Finally, at the end of this time, you will want to start doing things again in life that you used to do. 

`Read Romans 8:31–39; Revelation 21:4; and 1 Corinthians 15:52–57. What hope and comfort do these verses give you?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/09/06.md, after:

---
title: 'Loss Of Life'
date: 30/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As humans, we know death is real. We read about death. We see death. Maybe we almost died when we were young.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:26. How does this verse explain what death is? Why does this verse talk about death in this way?`

Death is an enemy. We learn this hard truth for ourselves when someone we love dies. But in a way, those who died believing in Jesus are much better off than we are. Why? Because they no longer feel sad or feel any pain. When God wakes them from the dead, the next thing they will see is Jesus. “Death is not a problem for the believer. . . . Death is the same as sleep. It is a short time of silence and darkness. While we live, Jesus makes us one with God. Now ‘Christ [Jesus] is your life. When he comes again, you will share in his glory’ [Colossians 3:4, ICB].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 787, adapted.

This life of pain and sorrow ends for everyone who dies. But the living continue to feel sad because of death. 

It is normal to feel sad when someone we love dies. But not everyone will feel sad in the same way when someone they love dies. The first thing that most people feel is shock. They may have trouble accepting the death. Shock is really your mind’s way of trying to protect you from what happened. Shock may last up to two or three months. After the shock is over, you may think about your loved one all the time. This time may last from six months to a year.

Then you will feel deep sadness. This feeling can last for a very long time. It can be the most painful time of all. During this time, you slowly learn to accept the loss of your loved one. You may feel many different things at this time: anger, guilt, sorrow, sadness, and worry. Do not try to get rid of all your pain or your memories. That is not your goal or purpose. Finally, at the end of this time, you will want to start doing things again in life that you used to do. 

`Read Romans 8:31–39; Revelation 21:4; and 1 Corinthians 15:52–57. What hope and comfort do these verses give you?`
