---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   31/05/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Many people suffer deeply because of their own bad habits. They become slaves to sin. They lose their money, jobs, health, and freedom. But Jesus came to make us free from sin. He came to free us from all bad habits that make us slaves. “ ‘If the Son makes you free, you are really free’ ” (John 8:36, ERV). Jesus also promises us that He always will be with us (Matthew 28:20; Isaiah 43:2). So, we do not have to fight this war against sin alone. We must remember that Jesus fights the war for us (1 Samuel 17:47). Jesus promises to give us victory (1 Peter 1:3–9). Today, you can start to win the war against sin. Jesus will help you win the war against any bad habit. God wants you to be free. That does not mean you will not need to fight hard. Sometimes, you may fall. But there is good news. Do not give up on God. And God will not give up on you. Also, do not be afraid to get help from a professional when you need it. You go to a doctor when your body is sick. God works with your doctor to help make you well. In the same way, there also are doctors who help people with their behavior. God can work with these mind-health professionals to help free you from your bad habits too. 

“At times, our lives will be hard. During those times, we should run to God. We should believe He will help us. God is mighty and strong. He can save us and free us. Do you really want God’s blessing? Then you must ask for it. He will give it to you. It is our job to pray. Yes, we need to pray. But let us not forget to praise God too. We also should thank God more than we do. God is the Giver of all our blessings. We also need to be grateful. We should think often about the mercy God shows us. We should praise His holy name more too. We should praise Him during hard times when we are sad.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, page 268, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:
 
`1. First Corinthians 13:5, ERV, helps us understand what forgiveness means: “Love does not remember wrongs done against it.” Why is forgiveness important when we are trying to heal broken friendships and marriages? How do Matthew 6:12–15 and Matthew 18:21, 22 help us answer this question?`

`2. How does our thinking about God’s mercy help us heal during a sad or hard time in life?`

`3. Maybe someone you know lost a loved one. Or maybe you know someone whose trust was broken. What can your church family do to help?`