---
title:  Surprise!
date:   14/06/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 14

**Surprise!**

My wife Kemba and I had been married for seven or eight years when I planned a big surprise. At the time, we were still driving the car we had bought in graduate school after our wedding, and it was time for an upgrade. I started checking local car dealerships and found one I knew my wife would love. After securing a loan from the bank, I purchased the car, and oh, the feeling I had driving it off the lot that Friday! I had to find a place to hide it until the big reveal. A friend let me park it in his garage, and we decided that on Saturday evening after Sabbath, I would bring Kemba over and we would surprise her.

That Saturday evening, I managed to get her to my friend’s home. When my friend and his wife made us some popcorn to snack on, I decided to hide the car key at the bottom of the cup that held Kemba’s popcorn. Finally, Kemba found the key. “Wait, what is this?” she exclaimed. “Dwain, did you buy me a car?”

A huge smile crossed my face, and I could hide my excitement no longer. I led her to the garage where the car awaited her with a big red bow on the hood. All my effort, preparation, and planning were worth it when I saw the smile on my wife’s face that night.

Friends, this week we will look at three critical messages that we must share with the world, but we will not succeed in sharing them if we fail to prepare. God is looking for people who are ready to reveal these messages to a world in need.

### inScribe

Write out Revelation 14:6–12 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 12. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `