---
title:  A Message to Share
date:   15/06/2025
---

### inGest

Revelation 14 centers around three messages God has sent to prepare people everywhere for His soon return. God raised up the Seventh-day Adventist Church in part to proclaim this final warning to the world.

The first angel has “the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth” (Rev. 14:6). This message urges all to fear God, give Him glory, and worship the One who made everything (v. 7). This gospel message is not new. We’re already proclaiming the “everlasting gospel”—timely, timeless, essential, needful, and eternal. The Old Testament prophets looked forward to it, and the early Christian church reached the world with it.

The second angel announces, “Babylon is fallen!” (Rev. 14:8). This message calls true worshipers of God to reject human forms of worship and beliefs that are not completely in line with Scripture. God calls us out of Babylon’s false worship so we can escape the plagues He will rain down on her for her wickedness (Rev. 18:4).

The first two messages are powerful, but the third angel’s message escalates in intensity: “The power of the proclamation of the first and second angels’ messages are to be concentrated in the third” (Ellen G. White, The Three Angels’ Messages [2022], 40). Why is it concentrated? The third angel’s message encompasses the everlasting gospel and the call to true worship from the first angel, as well as the second angel’s call to separate from false worship and all that is unlike God. However, this message also includes a fearsome warning not present in the first two messages: “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, he himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of His indignation” (Rev. 14:9). Beyond identifying Satan’s worshipers as those who worship the beast and bear his mark, this message also reveals God’s true worshipers, who have been sealed up and who belong to Him. They have patient endurance, keep the commandments of God, and possess the resolute faith of Jesus (v. 12).

“The third angel’s message… is present truth. This message is to go forth with great distinctness and power. It is not to be clouded by human theories and sophistries. The Sabbath is to be proclaimed as God’s memorial of creation” (White, The Three Angels’ Messages, 79). So what’s the core of this essential end-time message? “The whole of the gospel is embraced in the third angel’s message, and in all our work the truth is to be presented as it is in Jesus. In the preaching of the Word the first and most important thing is to melt and subdue the soul by presenting the Lord Jesus Christ as the sin-pardoning Saviour” (Ibid., 79). Did you catch that? We present a gospel of worship and warning, but nothing will win hearts like presenting the Lord Jesus Christ, humanity’s sin-pardoning Savior, the last hope for a perishing world.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Revelation 14. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why will the issue of worship be so critical at the end of time?`

`How can we show our love for God and others in light of the three angels’ fearful warning?`