---
title:  A Worship-centered Message
date:   16/06/2025
---

### inTerpret

Can a church that fails to worship deliver a worship-centered message? Can someone who has no personal devotional life magically proclaim the powerful end-time warnings found in Revelation 14:6–12? If we’re being honest, the answer to both questions is an emphatic no.

The worship theme running through all three angels’ messages is unmistakable. The first emphasizes the essential elements of true worship, while the second and third shout emphatic warnings against false worship. Because God is currently judging the inhabitants of the world, the first angel commands all to “worship Him,” the Creator God “who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (Rev. 14:7). The sign of our worship and allegiance to God is our love for Him (John 14:15), manifested in part by keeping His Sabbath holy. In Exodus 31:13, God urges the newly freed Israelites to keep the Sabbath, “for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you.” The Sabbath is a memorial of creation, and when we keep it, we honor God as our Creator and Redeemer.

Why is this focus on worshiping the Creator critical for Seventh-day Adventists? Consider the beginning of the Advent movement at the time of the Great Disappointment in 1844. Seventh-day Adventist pioneers began reading and studying the prophecies of Daniel and Revelation to figure out what they had missed concerning Jesus’ second coming, which they had believed would happen in October 1844. Unbeknownst to this nascent group of believers, other things were happening in 1844 that would greatly change the world. That year was also when Charles Darwin wrote the first draft of his theory of evolution, popularizing the evolutionary theory of origins that would fuel atheism. In 1844, Karl Marx began writing his influential economic and philosophical theories, all of which would form the foundation of the twentieth century’s most godless communist regimes.

Is it a coincidence that when these powerful anti-God movements first began, God was bringing into existence a people who strive to proclaim the good news of salvation, worship the Creator God, and call men and women out of sin to safety? When God called the Seventh-day Adventist Church into existence, He wanted a church that would not just preach but live what they preached. They would be a people who spent time in daily prayer and Bible study. They would be a people who interceded for others at their home altars. They would be a people who, like Jesus, rose early and stayed up late to commune with God. The preparation to proclaim the solemn messages of Revelation 14 begins at our worship altars. It begins in our private moments with God.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What do you find most unique about the final warning to the world presented in Revelation 14?`