---
title:  The Advantage
date:   18/06/2025
---

### inVite

“In a special sense Seventh-day Adventists have been set in the world as watchmen and light bearers. To them has been entrusted the last warning for a perishing world. On them is shining wonderful light from the word of God. They have been given a work of the most solemn import—the proclamation of the first, second, and third angels’ messages. There is no other work of so great importance. They are to allow nothing else to absorb their attention” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9 [1909], 19).

This sobering quotation helps us as Seventh-day Adventists understand our unique mission to the world. By the latest estimates, roughly 23 million Seventh-day Adventists are scattered around the world today. The current population of the world is a little over 8 billion. You don’t have to be a mathematician to realize we have a monumental task before us in sharing the three angels’ messages with the entire world. How can we ever accomplish it?

Instead of focusing on our seemingly impossible task, another approach is to focus on Jesus’ ability to impact the world with just a few people who spend time daily with Him. Think about it for a moment: With twelve disciples—one of whom was a betrayer—Jesus launched a movement that led you and me to Christ two thousand years after He lived. Twelve human beings with sinful tendencies. Twelve human beings with hangups and problems. With only twelve people, Jesus impacted the entire world.

How was Jesus so successful? Ellen White shares the secret: “He gave them [the disciples] the advantage of association with Himself. Never had the world’s great men such a teacher. When the disciples came forth from the Saviour’s training, they were no longer ignorant and uncultured. They had become like Him in mind and character, and men took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 250). Jesus exposed them to Himself—His altar life, His devotional life, His life of worship and consecration to the Father. When Jesus ascended to heaven, the disciples were not perfect, but they had a connection with God that gave them the wisdom and the power needed to fulfill their commission. Big things often begin in small ways. Your altar, your daily worship experience with Jesus, is what the Holy Spirit uses to impact the world.

Why, then, are Seventh-day Adventists only faintly impacting the globe for God? Could it be that we have not spent time with Jesus? We must go back to the altar. We must rebuild our broken worship altars to be empowered for God’s service.

### Journal

`Meditate on Revelation 14 again and look for Jesus.`

`What’s the good news that the first angel announces?`

`What’s the Seventh-day Adventist Church’s mission?`

`Prayer Response:`