---
title:  New Skies And A New Earth 
date:  21/03/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 65:17–25. What does the Lord promise to do in these verses?`

God promises to make everything new. He says, “ ‘Look, I will make new heavens [skies] and a new earth. And people will not remember the past. They will not think about those things’ ” (Isaiah 65:17, ICB). The Lord promises to “ ‘make a Jerusalem that is full of joy, and I will make her people happy’ ” (Isaiah 65:18, ERV). In the city of Jerusalem, no one will cry anymore (Isaiah 65:19). People will live longer than 100 years before they die (Isaiah 65:20). Their work and their children will be around for a long time for people to enjoy too (Isaiah 65:21–23). God will answer them even before they call to Him (Isaiah 65:24).

`This is a very nice picture. But nice as it is, why is this not a picture of the life that God promises to give us?`

So far, we see a picture of the long lives of peace and joy that the people of God will live in the Promised Land. Yes, they live longer. But they also will die. Where is the promise of the big change that we expect to happen to everything on the earth? The next verse tells us: “ ‘Wolves and little lambs will eat together. Lions will eat hay like cattle, and snakes will eat only dust. They will not hurt or destroy each other on my holy mountain.’ This is what the LORD said” (Isaiah 65:25, ERV).

Lions eat meat. For lions to stop eating meat, they will need more than a cooking class that uses only plants! God will need to make the earth new again as it was in Eden before sin.

In Isaiah 65, God shows us a picture of the new earth in parts. First, He will make Jerusalem new. Compare Isaiah 11, where we learn that the Savior will make things right (Isaiah 11:1–5). Then, at a later time, there will be worldwide peace on the mountain of God. The word pictures that Isaiah uses in Isaiah 65 to show us that future time are much the same as the ones we read in Isaiah 11:6, 7. The promise of a new earth will start at Jerusalem. But that beginning is only a taste of what God promises to do. He will make a new earth for His saved people.