---
title:  An Invitation From Heaven 
date:  22/03/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 66:1–19. What is the message in these verses?`

God gives Isaiah a message to give to His people. He invites His people to come to Him. He warns them not to turn away from Him. We see this invitation and warning in the whole book of Isaiah. God will save the ones who do not have any pride in their hearts. God will give them new lives. These people trust in His word (Isaiah 66:2, 5). As we saw in Isaiah 40:1, God will comfort His people who turn to Him (Isaiah 66:13). But He will destroy the ones who fight against Him. God will destroy the ones who act as if they love God in public. But in secret, these people do not obey God (Isaiah 66:3, 4; compare Isaiah 1:10–15). God also will destroy the ones who hate and turn against the people who are loyal to Him (Isaiah 66:5). This group of evil people also includes the ones who worship false gods (Isaiah 66:17; Ezekiel 8:7–12).

`Look at Isaiah 66:3. What is this verse saying? What spiritual rules do you see here? What do they teach us about ourselves and our worship of God today?`

`How is God the same as a magnet? That is, how does He “pull” the people from other countries to Himself? For the answer, read Isaiah 66:18, 19.`

After God destroys His enemies (Isaiah 66:14–17), God shows His glory. His glory acts the same as a magnet. His glory has the power to “pull” or draw people to Jerusalem (compare Isaiah 2:2–4). God gives his people a “sign.” Isaiah does not show us the sign. But we can guess that it is the last sign that Isaiah talked about: God will give His people joy and peace. God will give them back their land too (Isaiah 55:12, 13). When God shows His glory by doing these things for His people, this is a sign. It shows that God gives His favor to His people again. In the same way, God gave Noah the sign of the rainbow after the Flood (Genesis 9:13–17).

`Read Isaiah 66:5. What does it mean to “shake in fear at His [God’s] word” (NLV)? Why does the Lord want us to do that?`