---
title:  Worship Leaders And Workers For God 
date:  23/03/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 66:19, 20. In these verses, we read about the people of God who bring people from other countries to God as an offering. Why are the people of God doing that?`

God sends His saved people out to all parts of the earth. He wants His people to share the good news about Him with the people who do not know about God. “ ‘The saved people will tell the nations [people groups] about my glory’ ” (Isaiah 66:19, ERV). This is one of the best examples in the Old Testament that shows the plan of God for His people. He wants His people to share His teachings with people living in other countries. Isaiah already showed us that people from other countries will come to the Jews. Now Isaiah also shows us that the Jews must go to other countries and teach the people there about God. This is exactly what happens in the New Testament. Matthew 23:15 shows us that the Jews shared Bible truth with other people. But not the way the first Christians did. The first Christians shared the Good News about Jesus very fast and in a big way in a short time (Colossians 1:23).

The Hebrews in Old Testament times brought offerings of their crops to the Lord at His temple. In the same way, the Jews will bring an offering to the Lord too. But their offering is not food. What will their offering be? God tells all His people that His chosen workers “ ‘will bring all your brothers and sisters from those other nations [countries] to my holy mountain Jerusalem’ ” (Isaiah 66:20, ERV). These new people will be the same as “living sacrifices [gifts]” to God (compare Romans 12:1, ERV; also read Numbers 8:11).

`God says, “ ‘I will also choose some of these people to be priests [holy leaders] and Levites [Jewish religious leaders]’ ” (Isaiah 66:21, ERV). What does this verse show?`

Who are the “some of these people” that Isaiah 66:21 talks about? These are the Gentiles or non-Jews. God will choose some of them to be worship leaders. Wow! This is a big change. It goes against everything the Jews have been taught about who can serve God. Only the sons of Aaron can serve as priests. Only the Levites can help them. No other Jews can do this work. But now God is saying that He will allow non-Jews to serve Him as the priests and Levites did.