---
title:  Community Of Faith 
date:  24/03/2021
---

The Lord tells the people of Israel, “ ‘You will be my kingdom of priests [holy leaders]’ ” (Exodus 19:6, ICB). God also chooses some of these men to be the holy leaders for all of His people. But in the future, some Gentiles, or non-Jews, will become worship leaders (Isaiah 66:22).

`The decision of God to allow non-Jews to become worship leaders is a big change. How will this new rule change the community of faith in the New Testament? For the answer, read Matthew 28:19; Acts 26:20; Galatians 3:28; Colossians 3:11; 1 Timothy 3:16.`

In the new plan of God for His people, Gentiles or non-Jews will join the people of God. Gentiles also will be equal partners with the Jews. Together, Jews and Gentiles will become a kingdom of royal priests or worship leaders. This shows us that the separation between Jews and Gentiles will no longer matter.

`When will this new plan of God happen?`

Paul is the servant that God chooses to share the Good News about Jesus with the Gentiles. Paul announces, “Now, in Christ [Jesus], it doesn’t matter if you are a Jew or a Greek, a slave or free, male or female. You are all the same in Christ Jesus. You belong to Christ, so you are Abraham’s descendants [future children]. You get all of God’s blessings because of the promise that God made to Abraham” (Galatians 3:28, 29, ERV).

What does this announcement mean for the Gentiles? Does their becoming holy leaders mean they can brag or think they are better than other people? No. This announcement is an invitation. God invites the Gentiles to join the Jews in announcing the Good News about Jesus (read 1 Peter 2:9; compare Isaiah 66:19).

And what about the Jews? Are they allowed to complain that God is not fair because He lets the Gentiles become priests or holy leaders? Of course not. At the same time, the Gentiles must show respect to their Jewish brothers and sisters (read Matthew 20:1–16). God gave the law first to the Jews (Romans 3:2). So, Paul warns the Gentiles not to brag about being better than the Jews that did not accept the truth about Jesus (Romans 11:17, 18).