---
title:  You And Your Children Shall Live Forever 
date:  25/03/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 66:22. What is this verse saying to us? What hope does the promise give us?`

In Isaiah 66:22, we read one of the most wonderful promises in the whole book of Isaiah. Read this promise carefully. In the new earth, we and our children shall live forever. This verse is a promise of everlasting life in a new earth. God will destroy sin forever. Death will no longer hurt us. We will not suffer anymore. This promise is the final reward that God has promised us.

`Read Isiah 66:23. Why are there new moons along with Sabbaths in this picture of the new earth that Isaiah shows us?`

Isaiah 66:23 is not the easiest verse to understand. But here is one possible explanation. God made the Sabbath before He commanded His people to bring Him any offerings (Genesis 2:2, 3). This shows that the Sabbath is separate from the offerings humans made to God. So, the Sabbath continues to be a part of life in the new earth. Nowhere in the Bible do we see any proof that God commanded His people to worship Him on new moons. But maybe in the new earth, new moons will be worship days (but not a rest day the same as the Sabbath). Or maybe the new moons are connected in some special way to the tree of life. In Revelation 22:2, ERV, we learn that the tree of life grows “fruit every month, twelve times a year.”

We may not know exactly what Isaiah 66:23 means. But the most important thing this verse shows us is that the people God saves will worship Him forever and ever.

`Why does Isaiah end His book with an awful picture of saved people looking at the dead bodies of evil humans destroyed by God (Isaiah 66:24)?`

Isaiah wants to warn His people to not turn against God. So, Isaiah shows them what will happen to the saved and to the people that God will destroy. Do you see that the evil people are dead? This shows us that God will not burn the bodies of evil people forever. The fire will burn only as long as it needs to burn. After the fire does its job, it will end. Then God can make Jerusalem new again.