---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/03/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Controversy Ended,” in The Great Controversy, pages 662–678.

“Time in heaven will pass. Year after year there, we will see more beautiful truth about God and Jesus. Our knowledge will continue to grow. Love, respect for God, and happiness will grow too. The more humans learn about God, the more they will love Him. Jesus will show us more about the beautiful truth about the plan of God to save us. Jesus will show us everything God did to win the war against Satan. Then our hearts will fill with more love and respect for God. We will touch our harp of gold with joy. Many voices will join to sing praises to God.

“ ‘ “Then I heard every created [made by God] being [person] that is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, everything in all these places, saying, ‘All praise and honor and glory and power forever and ever to the one who sits on the throne and to the Lamb!” ’ Revelation 5:13 (ERV).

“The worldwide war between God and Satan has ended. Sin and sinners are destroyed. Heaven and earth are clean. Peace and joy fill everyone and everything. God is the One who made everything. He gives life, truth, and joy to everything He makes. Everything from the smallest thing He made to the largest planets are perfect in their beauty and joy. The beauty of all these things announce that God is love.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 678, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is the promise of everlasting life in a new heaven and a new earth so important to our Christian belief? What good is our faith without this promise?`

`Read 2 Peter 3:10–14. How do these verses teach the same idea shown in Isaiah 66?`

**Summary**: Isaiah shows us a powerful and wonderful vision of the future. God promises to clean His people from sin and heal them. God also will invite all the people of the earth to join His people. The work God does to heal and make His people new shows the work that God will do to make Planet Earth new too. Then God will live forever with His people. He will comfort them always with His love.