---
title:  When God Made The Skies And The Earth
date:  26/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Psalm 100:1–3; Genesis 2:1–3; Exodus 20:8–11; Genesis 1:26–29; Genesis 2:15–17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “In the beginning, God created [made] the heavens [skies] and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, NIrV).

THE BIBLE starts with the story about how God made life on this earth. This information is very important. It shows us when both human history and Bible history first started. So, we can trust that the Genesis story really happened. It is as real as any other story or history in the Bible.

In Genesis 1–2, we can read the story about how life on earth started. These two chapters teach us lessons about God and humans. As we study these chapters, we will understand more about the seventh-day Sabbath. We will learn about how God made humans as a copy of Himself. God made humans out of the ground, too. We also will learn why God made the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. We will study its connection to the tree of life.

What is the most important lesson we can learn from the stories in the book of Genesis? For sure, we can learn that our lives are a gift from God. God made the skies and the earth before any humans were alive. Then God gave humans the gift of life. After Adam and Eve sinned, God gave humans the gift of His mercy. For sure, God made us, and God saves us. The seventh-day Sabbath shows us both of these precious Bible truths.