---
title:  The God Who Made The Skies And The Earth 
date:  27/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 100:1–3. As these verses show us, how should we feel about the God who made us? Why should we feel this way?`

Genesis starts with a message about God, the One who made us. We see this Bible truth in the words written as: “God created the sky and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, ERV). “God” is the most important word in this first line.

Genesis 1 and 2 show us two different pictures of God. We see the first picture of God in Genesis 1:1–2:4. These verses show us that God is far above humans. The word written as “God” in Genesis 1:1 is “Elohim” in the Hebrew language. The name Elohim shows us that God is mighty and all-powerful. The word “Elohim” is plural. So, Elohim shows us more than one Person. Elohim also shows us that God is royal and more excellent than anyone or anything else.

We see the second picture of God in Genesis 2:4–25. This picture shows us God up close. We see God in a personal way. The Hebrew name for God in these verses is YHWH. This name shows us that God wants to have a close friendship with us. What is the most important lesson we learn from this second picture of God? We learn that the Genesis story about life is really an invitation to us to worship God. To do that, we must know that His royal beauty and power are very real. At the same time, we must feel our deep need of God. We must depend on Him completely. God made us. So, “we belong to him” (Psalm 100:3). Now do you see why so many Bible songs connect our worship of God with the story about how life started on earth (Psalm 95:1–6; Psalm 139:13, 14 [compare with Revelation 14:7])?

Genesis gives us these two pictures of God to show us an important Bible truth about worship. God is both royal and powerful. At the same time, this all-powerful God wants to be close to us. So, we always should remember to show God respect. For sure, God wants us to feel happy because He loves us and wishes to be near us (read Psalm 2:11). But we always must remember that God is far above us and is all-powerful. Then we will better understand how to worship Him. We also will enjoy His loving mercy more in our lives.

`God is very powerful. He holds everything together. At the same time, He wants to be very close to each of us. Why is this Bible truth so surprising and wonderful?`