---
title:  Everything Was Very Good 
date:  28/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Genesis 1:4, 10, 12, 18, 21, 25, 31 and Genesis 2:1–3. Why does God say “it was good” after everything He makes each day? What does God do when He finishes making everything at the end of the week? What lesson does His action teach us? Read Genesis 2:1–3 for the answer.

At the end of each day, God says His work is “tov,” or “good.” The Hebrew word “tov” shows us that God did a wonderful job. Everything God made was a success. So, when God says, “ ‘it was good,’ ” He is really saying, “everything works.” The light shines (Genesis 1:4). The plants grew fruit (Genesis 1:12), and so on.

“Tov” shows us more than how well something works. Bible writers use “tov” to show us the joy they feel for something beautiful (Genesis 24:16). “Tov” also shows us something good and not evil (Genesis 2:9). Evil things are connected with death (Genesis 2:17).

The words written as “it was good” show us that everything God made worked nicely. Everything was beautiful and perfect, too. There was no evil in anything God made. The earth then was not ruined by sin and death as we see today.

Most scientists today do not teach Bible truth. They teach that life on earth happened by chance and accident. Everything was made by slow changes that happened over a very long time. This idea is named evolution.

Moses, who wrote Genesis, gives us a different explanation about how life started. Moses says that God made the earth and everything in it (Genesis 1:1). Nothing we see was made by chance. Life did not happen by accident. No, life happened because God planned it (Genesis 1:3). The Hebrew word written as “made” in Genesis 1:1 is “bara.’ ”  Bible writers only use this word to talk about God and what He does. So, “bara’ ” shows us how God works. When God made something, it happened right away. There was no delay.

At the end of His week of work, God says that everything He made was “very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). So, God made everything (Genesis 1:1). God also finished His work in six days and rested on the Sabbath (Genesis 2:1).

Evolution teaches us that life on earth took billions of years to happen. This false idea is not in agreement with Bible truth. Why can these two ideas never agree?