---
title:  The Sabbath 
date:  29/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How does the Sabbath show us that God made the skies and the earth in six days and rested on the seventh day? How does this Bible truth help us keep the Sabbath holy? For the answers, read Genesis 2:2, 3 and Exodus 20:8–11.`

God made the Sabbath to show us that He ended all His work. So, when we rest on the seventh-day Sabbath, we show our faith in the Bible truth that God rested after He finished working. God also said that all His work was “very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). When we keep the Sabbath, we say that God made everything beautiful and good, too.

We can rest from our work on the Sabbath, just as God rested from His work. When we keep the Sabbath, we show God that we are thankful for all His gifts. These gifts include our bodies. Some thinkers during Bible times taught that the body was evil. Sad to say, some modern thinkers teach this idea, too. But this idea is wrong. The Bible does not teach this false idea anywhere. As Sabbath keepers, we thank God for all His gifts, including our bodies. That is why we take care of this earth and ourselves.

Every seven days, the Sabbath gives us hope for a better future. So, the Sabbath is a promise. When the week ends each Sabbath, we see that God will end our suffering in the future. After humans sinned, the Sabbath showed us that God will save us. The Sabbath also shows us that God will make the earth new again (Isaiah 65:17; Revelation 21:1). Then God will end all sin and suffering forever.

No wonder Jesus chose the Sabbath as a good time to heal people and to end suffering (Luke 13:13–16). The Jewish religious leaders got angry when Jesus healed anyone on the Sabbath. The leaders accused Jesus of breaking the law. But Jesus showed the leaders, and us, that we should take care of the sick on the Sabbath. We should show mercy to the suffering, too. When Jesus healed the sick on the Sabbath, Jesus showed us the future time when pain, suffering, and death will end forever. So, the Sabbath gives us hope that Jesus will save us now and end sin forever in the future.

`How does our resting on the Sabbath day show our faith in the promise that Jesus saves us now? How does our rest also show our belief that Jesus will make the skies and earth new again in the future?`