---
title:  When God Made Humans 
date:  30/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God made humans after He made everything else. Humans are the most wonderful thing that God made.

`Genesis 1:26–29 and Genesis 2:7 show us how God makes humans. How are these two stories in Genesis the same? What do both stories show us about humans?`

Humans are copies of God. So, we look much the same as God does. We are the only copies that God made of Himself, too. But we are not exact copies of God. Only Jesus is. For sure, animals are not copies of God: “God made every kind [type] of animal. He made the wild animals, the tame animals, and all the small crawling things” (Genesis 1:25, ERV). But “God created [made] humans in his own image [as a copy of Himself]. He created them to be like [much the same as] himself. He created them male and female” (Genesis 1:27, ERV). Sad to say, many Bible thinkers do not really understand this verse. They think that humans are only spiritual copies of God. So, they believe that we can show the love of God. But we do not really look the same as God.

What does the Bible teach us about this topic? Genesis says that God made Adam “in his own image [as a copy]” (Genesis 1:27, ERV). The Hebrew word for “image” shows us that God made humans with bodies that looked the same as His own body. God also made humans to be spiritual. The word written as “like [much the same as]” (Genesis 1:26, ERV) shows us this Bible truth. “Like” comes from the Hebrew word “demut.” “Demut” shows us that Adam can think and feel. So, Adam is the same as God in this way, too. Ellen G. White says, “When God made Adam, Adam looked very much the same as God. Adam was a copy of God. Adam had a body, mind, and spirit.”—Education, page 15, adapted.

We see that Genesis 2:7 teaches this same Bible truth: “And the man became a living person” (Genesis 2:7, NIrV). The words written as “a living person” come from the Hebrew word “nefesh.” “Nefesh” shows us that Adam came alive because God did two things. God “took dust [part of the ground]” and made a man. Then God “breathed” life into the nose of the man (Genesis 2:7, ERV). The word written as “breathed” shows us that Adam has a spirit and a real body.

Later, God will make the woman from the body of the man (Genesis 2:21, 22). God makes the woman this way to show us that she also has a spirit and a real body.