---
title:  The Three Gifts 
date:  31/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does God do as soon as He makes the first man? God gives him three gifts: (1) the Garden of Eden (Genesis 2:8), food (Genesis 2:16), and the woman (Genesis 2:22).`

`How should humans feel about this planet and God? What is the connection between these two things? For the answer, read Genesis 2:15–17.`

Moses says, “The Lord God put the man in the Garden of Eden to work the soil and take care of the garden” (Genesis 2:15, ERV). The word written as “work” is “ ‘avad” in the Hebrew language. This word helps us understand what God expects us to do with our gifts. We must work hard to improve them. Jesus teaches us this same lesson in His picture story in Matthew 25:14–30. In Genesis 2:15, the verb written as “take care of” comes from the Hebrew word “shamar.” In the Hebrew language, “shamar” means to “keep.” “Shamar” shows us that we need to protect our gifts.

God also gives the man the gift of food (Genesis 1:29). Then “the Lord God told the man, ‘You are free to eat from any tree of the garden’ ” (Genesis 2:16, NLV). Humans did not make the trees or their food. The trees and the food are a gift. This gift shows us the love of God.

This gift of food also comes with a commandment. God tells the man, “ ‘But you must not eat from the tree that gives knowledge about good and evil. If you eat fruit from that tree, on that day you will certainly [for sure] die!’ ” (Genesis 2:17, ERV). This important rule is a test. God gives the humans this test for their own good. If they fail, God will not allow them to eat from the tree of life.

The third gift is the woman. God gives the man a command about this special gift, too. This command shows us an important rule about marriage: “a man will leave his father and his mother, and will be joined to his wife. And they will become one flesh [body]” (Genesis 2:24, NLV). The words written as “one flesh” are a word picture. They show us that the husband and his wife become one person when they marry (compare with Matthew 19:7–9). Marriage is a gift from God. The husband and the wife are responsible for making sure that their marriage is a success.

`God gives you many wonderful gifts. How can you protect these gifts? How can you use these gifts for Him?`