---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Science and the Bible,” pages 129, 130, in Education; ‘The Creation,’ in The Story of Redemption, pages 21, 22.

“Nature is the same as a book. Nature is a ‘second’ Bible. Nature and the Bible show us that God ‘wrote’ them both. Nature and the Bible are in complete agreement. Scientists always discover new wonders, for sure. But nothing from science ever disagrees with the Bible. The book of nature and the Bible teach the same thing. They help us learn about God and His natural laws. These laws show us how God works.

“Some scientists teach false ideas. They think that science and the Bible do not agree. So, the scientists try to make the Bible agree with their false ideas. Then they destroy our belief in Bible truth. Scientists who study the earth and its rocks say that science does not agree with the Bible about how life started. These scientists say that millions of years were necessary for life on earth to happen. So, the scientists force the Bible to agree with their false ideas. The Bible says that God took six days to make the skies in the earth. But the scientists say that these six days are really word pictures for thousands and millions of years.

“This idea is completely false. The Bible record is in perfect agreement with nature and its teaching.”—Ellen G. White, Education, pages 128, 129, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What if you thought that the Bible stories about how life started were make-believe? Sad to say, many Christians believe this way. This false idea destroys our faith in the Bible. What hints do you see in the Bible that show us that Moses knew that the stories he wrote in Genesis 1 and 2 were as real as the rest of Genesis? What does Jesus say about these stories?`

`What does the Genesis story teach us about being good managers of the earth?`

`For sure, sin ruined a lot of the perfect beauty of this earth. But what things in nature continue to show you that the things that God made are “very good”? How do these things show us that God is kind and all-powerful?`