---
title: Children’s Sacrifice
date: 11/02/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 2 Chronicles 28:16–27**

**Children's Sacrifice**

Luchiezzi (not his real name) was a smart entrepreneur of Italian descent living in an Italian settlement in South America. Someone suggested that he seek out a priest from Afro-Brazilian occultist religion. Why not try it? he thought. After paying for the animal sacrifices and for the priest’s services, his business started to grow. Was it by chance? he wondered. But the more he advanced in that cult, the more he prospered.

He ended up owning a large fleet of brand-new trucks traveling all through the country, while living in luxury. Eventually the priest told him that if he wanted to keep his business growing, he would need to sacrifice more. But Luchiezzi became terrified when the priest told him that the guiding entity was asking for one of his sons in sacrifice. Horrified, he left that place and decided never to return.

A few days later he received a message from the priest saying that if he would not come back, he would lose all that he had gained, and even his life. Nightmares replaced sleep, and fear was now controlling him. But he was firm in his decision never to go back. In that same week he started to lose, one by one, all his trucks. Accidents, fire, thefts, and arrests gradually ravaged his properties, until he was left with nothing except a small apartment.

With nothing to eat, he sent his family to his wife’s parents’ home, and stayed alone in anguish. Then he started to wonder if there wouldn’t be another side in the spiritual realm. That same day an Adventist, living next door, offered him a Bible study. After a while the whole family was baptized. Living in very humble conditions and starting a new business from scratch, he said to the pastor, “I now have peace and freedom because I worship the Creator of heaven and earth.”

The story of King Ahaz will reveal the terrible loss implied in rejecting God’s invitation to test or to try Him. It will also show us that sacrificial giving is not necessarily a virtue or a positive trait of character, unless we choose the right recipient. We will also discover that offerings, when directed to demons, become far more costly than surrendering our whole lives to the Creator of the universe!

#### inScribe

Write out 2 Chronicles 28:16–27 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out 2 Chronicles 28:19. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `