---
title: Unwilling to Trust
date: 12/02/2023
---

#### inGest

A committed Christian didn’t see any risk in frequently associating his family with an unbelieving family. Eventually it led to traveling and doing business together, with his son later marrying a girl from that family. This is mirrored in the story of the good king Jehoshaphat of Judah, who mingled his family with the family of the Israelite king Ahab. The pervaded apostasy and idolatry that was brought to Judah through this association controlled most of the following kings of Judah, ending up in their destruction by the Babylonians centuries later.

One of the most wicked descendants of Jehoshaphat was King Ahaz. Not indifferent to the spiritual realm, this religious king invested lots of resources in sacrificing and burning incense on high places, hills, and under every green tree (see 2 Chron. 28:4). So great was his willingness to please his gods that he came to the point of sacrificing his own son (v. 3).

Losing God’s special protection, Ahaz was attacked by Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the king of Israel. With his conscience stricken, he and his people feared tremendously. At that time Isaiah the prophet appealed to him to fear the Lord instead (Isa. 8:12, 13) and to rest and be quiet because the wicked alliance would not stand (Isa. 7:5–7). But “if you will not believe, surely you shall not be established,” said Isaiah (v. 9).

In trying to help the king to believe, God invited him to ask for a sign—whatever he would choose (vv. 10, 11). “Here is one of the greatest invitations to faith ever given to a human being. . . . God placed no restrictions in fine print. . . . He was ready and willing to empty all of heaven and earth for a wicked king if he would only believe!” (Roy E. Gane, Adult Bible Study Guide [student version], Jan. 12, 2021, 23). Maybe Ahaz thought he was too far from God. Rejecting any help, the king refused God’s invitation to test Him and sealed his fate. Is it possible that some of us may also be rejecting Jesus’ invitation to test Him?

Afraid of further defeats, Ahaz called for the help of Assyria, removing “part of the treasures from the house of the Lord, from the house of the king, and from the leaders” (2 Chron. 28:21) and giving them to the king of Assyria. The nation defeated Syria, but then harassed Judah as well. He also sacrificed to the gods of the Syrians, who had defeated him, believing that those gods could also help him. The more he got in trouble, the more he grew unfaithful to the Lord. Ahaz also cut in pieces the articles of the house of God and shut up its doors, interrupting the services (in form only) that were still in place. Finally, he made altars to offer sacrifices and burned incense in every corner of Jerusalem and every single city of Judah (see vv. 24, 25).

This neurotic and obsessive giver was hated by his subjects. He wasn’t even granted space in the tombs of the kings after his death at age 36. There is no record of a single good deed in his short life! This sad story tells us about the terrible consequences of the unequal yoke, as well as of refusing to test the Lord when there is an invitation from Him for us to do so.

**Memorize your favorite verse in 2 Chronicles 28:16–27. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`If it is too risky exposing our family to worldly influences, should we leave the world to perish without mingling with them? How do you find the balance?`