---
title: Wicked Liberality
date: 13/02/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Ahaz was not a close-fisted type of person. Rather his pagan mindset led him to become extremely liberal while giving, expecting supernatural protection from the idols (demons). Some choose to seek protection from the spirits because these spirits would not challenge their lifestyle or invite them to a holy life. But as Ahaz’s story shows (and many modern stories also), spirits will end up making the situation worse.

Some Christians may be tempted to return their tithes and offerings to God under that same pagan motivation—in exchange of God’s blessings or protection—something that is unbiblical and therefore unacceptable to God. He expects us to give, not primarily expecting future blessings, but in answer to blessings already received, as a response for His protective care! The fact that they should be ideally given as a proportion of the income or increase should be a remembrance of the fact that we are unable to give unless we receive something.

While trying to please demons, Ahaz rejected God’s initiative to guide him, through the main means that He has in store for instructing sinners—the ministry of prophets. When someone disregards God’s messengers—canonical or noncanonical prophets—what more will have God in store for guiding His children? “If they don’t hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rise from the dead,” says Jesus in Luke 16:31.

Incidentally, there is no evidence of a classification of prophets as canonical (those whose writings are registered in the Bible) or noncanonical during Old Testament times. As a matter of fact, no prophet was canonical at the time of their ministry, be it Isaiah, Nathan, or Deborah. Nevertheless, God always expects that His messages, sent through His prophets, would be believed and practiced.

Therefore, if Ellen G. White’s prophetic gift is a genuine manifestation of God’s Spirit (even though she is not a canonical prophet), any contempt for the prophetic authority of her messages may finally lead us to also disregard the Bible, because both writings have the same origin.

Through the prophet Isaiah, God invited Ahaz to test Him (Isa. 7:10), but Ahaz declined the offer, indicating that he would not test God’s patience. His lack of connection with God and his disregard for the prophetic voice led him to ignore that by rejecting God’s invitation to test Him, he was rejection God Himself.

In reality, “Ahaz was not even willing to allow God to help him to believe. He barred and bolted the door of his heart to shut out faith.” (Roy E. Gane, Adult Bible Study Guide [student version], Jan. 12, 2021, 23). After the king’s refusal to test the Lord, Isaiah clearly indicated that God was no longer Ahaz’s God (compare vv. 10 and 13). (Idea taken from R. Gane, Adult Bible Study Guide [student version], Jan. 12, 2021, 23.) How serious can unwillingness to test the Lord be when He is the one inviting us to do so?

Are we not also at the risk of ignoring the prophetic voice and God’s invitation to test Him? Take, for instance, God’s invitation to try Him as found in Malachi 3:10: “ ‘Bring all the tithes into the storehouse . . . and try Me now in this,’ says the Lord of hosts, ‘If I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it.’ ” Not to test Him after this invitation means to follow Ahaz’s behavior, barring and bolting the door of the heart “to shut out faith.”

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What do you believe was the main reason behind Ahaz’s refusal to become acquainted with God?`