---
title: The Costliest Offering
date: 15/02/2023
---

#### inVite

We can only imagine what motivated Ahaz to offer his son as a burnt offering—a practice that was common for the surrounding idolatrous nations. In almost every pagan religion, you take the initiative. You need to pay, suffer, or sacrifice to appease or please the deities and spirits. It is believed that the more you pay or suffer, the more you get in return.

Constantly surrounded by threats from almost every side, Ahaz was in great need of protection. In desperate need of supernatural help, he offers his most costly possession! How could he gaze into the anguished eyes of his child as he placed him in the arms of that glowing idol? How could he feel the smell of his son’s roasted flesh while looking to the ascending smoke?

Centuries before, one of his ancestors faced a similar situation. But as Abraham was about to lower the knife over his most costly offering, a voice from heaven prevented him killing Isaac. God had provided a Substitute for his son—God’s costliest Offering—His own Son!

It is a clear truth in the Bible that we are never required to pay for our acceptance through offerings or tithe. Instead, we are invited to accept God’s costliest offering—Jesus Christ—as a free gift, a propitiation for our sins.

When you confess your sins, no matter your past and guilt, and believe that Jesus’ offering is accepted by the Father on your behalf, you have peace with God (Rom. 5:1), are no longer under condemnation (Rom. 8:1), and have become God’s child. Your life becomes the accomplishment of God’s eternal purpose, which is always for your good (Jer. 29:11; Rom. 8:28).

As a result, regular offerings and the tithe are required by God as a proportion of the material blessings He gave us every time He blesses us (they are regulated by God’s giving). Through this act of worship God helps us to look back to His blessings and realize that they became possible only because of Jesus’ death—God’s costliest offering. By taking the load of our sins upon Himself and by forgiving them through His death, Jesus opened the door for us to receive all other blessings. (Remember that God cannot prosper willful sinners; those who do not confess their sins do not allow Jesus to pay for them!)

Ahaz conversely gave incessantly, gave too much (even his son), and gave before the blessings in expectation of them. Moved by an uncontrolled giving frenzy, he gave far more than he would have returned tithes and regular offerings, as prescribed by God. After giving so much, instead of being protected, he was ruined by the demons.

God’s worshippers are called to return tithes and regular offerings always after God’s giving, as a recognition for His giving and never before! If given in an attempt to bribe God in exchange for His blessings, they will not be accepted. God is actually the one who is “bribing” us, because He is always the one who initiates the giving process.

It would have cost far less for Ahaz to accept God’s offering, bringing the tithes and regular offerings as prescribed by God in a grateful act of worship. But he refused, trying to pay himself with incredible costly offerings—to no avail. Let us accept today God’s merciful invitation to receive His costliest offering!

**Meditate on Luke 16:19–31 again and look for where Jesus is.**

` `

`How do you explain the fact that the Bible says that the Lord does not desire sacrifice (Hosea 6:6), but at the same time asks us to regularly bring tithes and offerings?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`