---
title:  Further Thought
date:  06/06/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Flood,” pp. 101, 102, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“The high priest cannot defend himself or his people from Satan’s accusations. He does not claim that Israel is free from fault. In filthy garments, symbolizing the sins of the people, which he bears as their representative, he stands before the Angel, confessing their guilt, yet pointing to their repentance and humiliation, and relying upon the mercy of a sin-pardoning Redeemer. In faith he claims the promises of God. . . .

“Satan’s accusations against those who seek the Lord are not prompted by displeasure at their sins. He exults in their defective characters; for he knows that only through their transgression of God’s law can he obtain power over them. His accusations arise solely from his enmity to Christ. Through the plan of salvation, Jesus is breaking Satan’s hold upon the human family and rescuing souls from his power. . . .

“In his own strength, man cannot meet the charges of the enemy. In sin-stained garments, confessing his guilt, he stands before God. But Jesus, our Advocate, presents an effectual plea in behalf of all who by repentance and faith have committed the keeping of their souls to Him. He pleads their cause, and by the mighty arguments of Calvary, vanquishes their accuser. His perfect obedience to God’s law has given Him all power in heaven and in earth, and He claims from His Father mercy and reconciliation for guilty man.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 583–586.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus told His disciples that they were in the world but not of the world. (See John 15:19, John 17:14–16.) How do we balance our responsibility to win the world with the need to keep ourselves “unspotted from the world” (James 1:27)?`

`What does Noah’s public ministry prior to the Flood teach us about how the great controversy works? In what ways do we play the same role today?`

`Prior to devouring the wicked with fire from heaven (as He did with Sodom), God raises them from the dead and allows Satan to work with them for a short while (Rev. 20:7–9). What reasons can you think of that this would be a necessary last step before God sets everything right?`

`As you consider the stories we studied this week, what cautions do you find for your own life? What do these stories teach you about your hope in Christ?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“The Millennium,” in The Story of Redemption, pp. 415, 516;\
“The Captivity of Satan and His Angels,” in Maranatha, p. 313.\