---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Levi-Matthew,” pp. 272–280; “The Sabbath,” pp. 281–289, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“When questioned, ‘Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath days?’ Jesus answered, ‘What man shall there be among you, that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the Sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out? How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath days.’ Matt. 12:10–12.

“The spies dared not answer Christ in the presence of the multitude, for fear of involving themselves in difficulty. They knew that He had spoken the truth. Rather than violate their traditions, they would leave a man to suffer, while they would relieve a brute because of the loss to the owner if it were neglected. Thus greater care was shown for a dumb animal than for man, who is made in the image of God. This illustrates the working of all false religions. They originate in man’s desire to exalt himself above God, but they result in degrading man below the brute. Every religion that wars against the sovereignty of God defrauds man of the glory which was his at the creation, and which is to be restored to him in Christ. Every false religion teaches its adherents to be careless of human needs, sufferings, and rights. The gospel places a high value upon humanity as the purchase of the blood of Christ, and it teaches a tender regard for the wants and woes of man. The Lord says, ‘I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir.’ Isa. 13:12.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pp. 286, 287.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What strategies or practices help you and your local church stay sensitive to silently suffering people like the paralytic in Mark 2?`

`Think about how blinded by hatred, tradition, dogma, and religion in general the religious leaders who rejected Jesus had become so that even His miracles didn’t open their minds to Him. How can we as a people be careful that something similar doesn’t happen to us?`

`How can your local church become “family” for those whose immediate genetic family may have rejected them over their faith?`

`Dwell more on the question of the “unpardonable sin.” In class, discuss what it means and how we can be sure not to commit it.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Selected Messages_, “Christ Holds Control,” book 1, pp. 83, 84;\
_The Desire of Ages_, “The Sabbath,” pp. 281–289.