---
title:  Words, Books, and Their Meanings
date:   09/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

2 Timothy 3:16, 17; 1 Kings 3:6; Genesis 1:26, 27; Genesis 2:7; Genesis 15:1–5.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “He said, ‘Take this Book of the Teachings. Put it beside the Ark of the Covenant with the Lord your God. It must stay there as a witness against you’ ” (Deuteronomy 31:26, ICB).

THERE ARE BILLIONS of people living on earth. How many languages do they speak? More than 6,000! The Bible has been written in more than 600 languages. The New Testament has been written in more than 2,500 languages too. That is a lot of languages! At the same time, 2,500 is less than half the languages spoken on the earth.

About 1.5 billion people do not have the full Bible in their own language. Bible societies have done a lot of work to change that. But a lot more work needs to be done to write the Bible in other languages.

Yes, it is a blessing to read the Bible in your own language! We often do not think about all the people who do not have the Bible in their own language. For hundreds of years in Europe, the Roman Catholic Church hid the Bible away from people. Then things changed with the printing press and the Protestant Reformation. The Protestant Reformation was a time when people in Europe woke up to Bible truth. Hundreds of years later, we continue to look for new ways to study the Bible and learn more about Jesus.

_For hundreds of years in Europe, the Roman Catholic Church hid the Bible away from people._
