---
title:  UNDERSTANDING THE BIBLE
date:   10/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read 2 Timothy 3:16, 17. What did God give us the Bible for?`

The Bible shows us God’s work in history. It shows us God’s plan for saving humans from sin too. God also gave us the Bible to teach us His truth. The Bible shows us how we can live holy lives for Him. God chose to share these truths with us in human language. In the Bible, God makes His thoughts and ideas known to us in human words. When God saved Israel from Egypt, God chose Israel to communicate His message to all people on the earth. God let Israel communicate the Bible in their own language. So, they wrote the Bible in Hebrew, with a few parts in the Aramaic language. Aramaic is almost the same as Hebrew.

The New Testament is written in Greek, not Hebrew. Greek was the language that most people spoke in that part of the earth at that time. The Old Testament also was written in Greek. Greek was spoken all over the kingdom of Rome. So, that made it easy for Jesus’ followers and the church to share the Good News in many places. Later, we read in Revelation about Jesus’ follower John. “John is a witness to everything he saw. What he saw is God’s word and what Jesus Christ has said” (Revelation 1:2, NIrV). In this verse, we see that Bible writers are witnesses to God’s truth. The Bible shows us that all the Bible writers are in agreement, from Moses in Genesis to John in Revelation. That is because all Bible writers write what Jesus shows them and what He says to them. They are His witnesses.

`Read Deuteronomy 32:46, 47. Why was it important for the Israelites to “obey all the words of this law” (Deuteronomy 32:46, NIrV)? How does obeying God’s Word, the Bible, help Israel to live longer? How is that true for us today?`

Some people have the Bible written in their own languages. They may have many different translations too. Other people may have only one translation. The most important thing is not how many different Bible translations you have in your language. The most important thing of all is loving God’s Word, the Bible, with all your heart and obeying its teachings.

`Why is obeying Bible truth NOT a waste of time?`

_The most important thing of all is loving God’s Word, the Bible, with all your heart and obeying its teachings._
