---
title:  WORDS AND THEIR MEANINGS
date:   11/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

In every language, there are words that have a rich and deep meaning. The deep meaning makes it hard to write these words in another language. Sometimes it is hard to find only one word that shows everything this word means. So, you must use many words. There are many Hebrew and Greek words in the Bible that are rich and deep. So, we need to study the different ways they are used in the Bible. Then we can better understand what these words mean.

`Read about God’s mercy and love in 1 Kings 3:6; Psalm 57:3; Psalm 66:20; Psalm 143:8; and Micah 7:20. How does God show His mercy and love to humans?`

The Hebrew word for mercy is “chesed.” “Chesed” is full of deep meaning. In the Old Testament, “chesed” means God’s love, His kind heart, and His mercy. “Chesed” also shows us that God keeps His Special Agreement with His people. In the verses above, we see examples of the word “chesed” and how it is used. In 1 Kings 3:6 (NIrV), we read: “Solomon answered, ‘You have been very kind [chesed] to my father David, your servant. That’s because he was faithful [obedient] to you. He did what was right. His heart was honest. And you have continued to be very kind [chesed] to him.’ ” And in Psalm 57:3 (ICB), we read: “God sends me his love [chesed] and truth.” In Micah 7:20 (NIrV), the Bible promises that God will “show [His] love [chesed] to Abraham’s children.” People have written whole books about the word “chesed.” The books try to explain God’s wonderful love and mercy for us.

Numbers 6:24–26; Job 3:26; Psalm 29:11; Isaiah 9:6; and Isaiah 32:17 talk about peace. What is this peace  about?

The Hebrew word “shalom” often is written as “peace.” But the word means much more than that. Shalom can be written as “being whole”; “having everything that is needed”; and “having joy, health, and success.” God blesses us with “shalom,” or everything we need in life. So, “shalom” is a gift from God (Numbers 6:24–26). The words “Shabbat [Sabbath] shalom” are a blessing. They show us the peace that God provides us with on the Sabbath. God gives us this peace when we have fellowship with Him.

_“Shabbat [Sabbath] shalom” is a blessing. It shows us the peace that God provides us with on the Sabbath. God gives us this peace when we have fellowship with Him._
