---
title:  WORDS AND THEIR MEANINGS
date:   12/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

In the Hebrew language, you can write an idea in different ways. These ways help the reader to understand words in Hebrew writing or to show that an idea is important. Hebrew language does not use commas or periods. So, how did someone know where a sentence stopped? People who wrote Hebrew came up with other ways to show where a sentence ended.

`Read Genesis 1:26, 27 and Isaiah 6:1–3. What words are said again and again in these verses? What ideas do these words show us? How do these ideas change the meaning of the words that are said again and again?`

How did a Hebrew writer show that a word or idea about God was important? The writer said this same word three times. We see an example of this in Genesis when God made humans on day #6. “And God made man in His own likeness [a copy of Himself]. In the likeness of God He made him. He made both male and female” (Genesis 1:27, NLV). Do you see that Moses writes the word “made” three times? Why do you think Moses did that? The Hebrew word for “made” shows us the answer. It comes from the Hebrew word “bara'. ” This word shows us that God is the only One who has power to make things from nothing. God made humans as copies of Himself. That is what Moses wants to show us.

Now let us look at an example in Isaiah. Isaiah has a dream about six-winged angels. These angels say, “ ‘Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of heaven’s armies’ ” (Isaiah 6:3, ICB). The angels say “holy” three times to show us God’s glory and power. We see the same idea again when Isaiah sees God. Isaiah says: “ ‘Oh, no! I will be destroyed’ ” (Isaiah 6:5, ERV). What do Isaiah’s words show us? They show us that Isaiah sees he is a sinner when he stands in front of a holy God. Isaiah’s words also show us that humans need a Savior. Isaiah shows us this idea long before Paul writes about our need for a Savior in Romans 1–3.

In Daniel 3, we see the words “King Nebuchadnezzar made a gold statue” (NIrV). Daniel writes these words ten times in chapter 3. He says them so many times to show us that Nebuchadnezzar is fighting against God’s plan for the future (Daniel 2:31–45). Daniel wants us to see that humans must not try to be worshiped as gods. God is the only true God. He is the only One we should worship.

_The word “bara'[made]” shows us that God is the only One who has power to make things from nothing._
