---
title:  VERSES AND THE WORDS AND VERSES AROUND THEM
date:   13/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The words in Bible verses always have other words and verses around them. These other words and verses help us to understand the meaning of a verse. We can understand a Bible verse in one of two ways. First, a word is always written in a sentence. We need to understand what the word means in that sentence. Then we need to look at the chapter, the verses, or chapters where the word is used. It is important for us to understand the verses and chapters around the words and sentences we are studying in the Bible. Then we will not believe wrong ideas.

`Compare Genesis 1:27 with Genesis 2:7. Next, read Genesis 2:15–23. How do these different verses show us what the word “adam” means? “Adam” is the Hebrew word for “man.”`

We saw that the word “bara' ” in Genesis 1:27 is written three times to show that God made man. In Genesis 1:27 (ERV), we see that man is part of the pair “male and female.” What does this show us? It shows us that the Hebrew word “adam” in this verse means humans.

But in Genesis 2:7 (ERV), Moses uses the same word “adam” to show us that God “took dust from the ground [adamah] and made a man.” (Do you see that the Hebrew word for “ground” is “adamah”? It looks the same as “adam” or “man.”) In Genesis 2:7, we read only about the male Adam. That is because God does not make Eve until later. God also makes Eve in a different way than He makes Adam. So, in each verse, and even in the two different chapters where the verses are, we see that the word “adam” has different meanings. In Genesis 1:27, “adam” means “humans.” But in Genesis 2:7, “adam” means the man Adam. Later on, the Bible shows us that Adam is a real person (Genesis 5:1–5; 1 Chronicles 1:1; Luke 3:38). Also, Paul says that Jesus is the second Adam (Romans 5:12–14).

So, we see the word “Adam” in certain verses in the Bible. In the same way, the story about how God made Adam and Eve is found in the bigger story about how God made the earth in Genesis 1 and 2. These chapters show us new ideas and topics. Genesis 2:4–25 is often named the second story about how God makes the earth. Next week we will see that Genesis 1 and Genesis 2:4–25 really show us the same story. The only thing different is that they focus on different ideas. But both stories show us that God made humans.

_In Genesis 2:7 (ERV), Moses uses the word “adam” to show us that God “took dust from the ground [adamah] and made a man.”_
