---
title:  BOOKS AND THEIR MESSAGE
date:   14/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Bible books are the biggest parts of the Bible. They were written for different reasons and in different places. Some Bible books show us the future. Other Bible books are a collection of songs or poems (the Psalms). There also are history books (1 and 2 Kings). There also are letters written to different churches. (Examples in the Bible include the letters that Paul and other men wrote.)

What is the first thing we need to do to understand a Bible book’s message? We must start with learning about the writer and the place where he wrote. Moses wrote the 1st five books of the Old Testament. How do we know? The Bible tells us in Joshua 8:31, 32; 1 Kings 2:3; 2 Kings 14:6; 2 Kings 21:8; Ezra 6:18; Nehemiah 13:1; Daniel 9:11–13; and Malachi 4:4. Jesus also tells us the same thing in Mark 12:26; John 5:46, 47; and John 7:19. The New Testament writers do too (Acts 3:22; Romans 10:5). But we do not always know who wrote some of the Bible books. We do not know who wrote Esther, Ruth, Samuel, and Chronicles.

`Read Genesis 15:1–5 and Genesis 22:17, 18. Why is it important to us that Moses wrote the book of Genesis?`

Moses wrote the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy after Israel left Egypt, of course. But we believe that Moses wrote Genesis before God made Israel free from slavery. Why do we think that? Because Genesis shows us the history of God’s acts from the time when God made the earth to the time of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

“As the years passed, Moses took his sheep to places far away from other people. There, Moses thought about how his people were slaves in Egypt. Moses also thought about what God did for Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Moses thought about God’s promises too. God gave these promises to the future children of Israel as a gift because they were His chosen people. So, Moses prayed for Israel day and night. Angels from heaven put their light around Moses. Here, with the Holy Spirit’s help, Moses wrote the book of Genesis.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 251, adapted.

The book of Genesis shows us where we came from. It also shows us God’s plan to save sinners. Later, God shows Abraham more information about this plan: God promised to give Abraham many children (Genesis 22:17, NIrV).

_“Angels from heaven put their light around Moses. Here with the Holy Spirit’s help, Moses wrote the book of Genesis.”_
