---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   15/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Ellen G. White, “John Wycliffe,” pages 79–96; “Luther Before the Diet,” pages 145–170 in The Great Controversy. Also read section 4.A.–J. from the article “Methods of Bible Study,” which can be found at the following link: www.adventistbiblicalresearch.org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study.

“In the Bible, God gives men the knowledge they need to be saved. We must accept the Bible as God’s plan for our lives. The Bible is God’s Word. The Bible is true. It cannot lie or lead us in the wrong way. It shows us exactly what God expects of us. The Bible is God’s test for our lives. It shows us how we should think and feel. It teaches us the truth. It is the test for all our experience. . . . Yes, God shows us His plan for our lives in the Bible. But that does not mean that we do not need the Holy Spirit’s help. We need the Spirit to guide us and help us to understand the Bible. Jesus promised to give us the Holy Spirit. Jesus also promised that the Spirit will help His servants to understand Bible truth. The Spirit will make the Bible’s teachings clear to our minds. The Spirit will help us live Bible truth too. Remember, God’s Spirit led men to write the Bible. So, the Spirit will not ever teach us anything that does not agree with the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 9, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. How many different Bibles do you have in your own language? How can you do the best you can with what you have? How can you learn to love the Bible and see it as God’s Word? What are ways you can obey its teachings?`

`2. What does the Bible teach us about how life started on this earth? What does “science” teach us? The Bible’s teaching is very different from science’s teaching. Humans can become very confused when they turn away from Bible truth and what it teaches. What should this tell us about why it is important for us to trust what the Bible teaches?`

`3. What Bible tools do you have? How can they help you to understand the Bible better?`

`4. Moses told the children of Israel to teach their children Bible truth and to tell them their stories about everything God did for them (Deuteronomy 4:9). How does sharing our stories about God’s love help our faith to grow?`

_“In the Bible, God gives men the knowledge they need to be saved.”_
