---
title:  The Son of Promise
date:  11/05/2022
---

The last scene of circumcision involved everyone: not only Ishmael—but also all the males of Abraham’s household were circumcised (Gen. 17:23–27). The word kol, “all,” “every,” is repeated four times (Gen. 17:23, 27). It is against this inclusive background that God appears to Abraham to confirm the promise of a son, “Isaac.”

`Read Genesis 18:1–15 and Romans 9:9. What lessons of hospitality do we learn from Abraham’s reception of his visitors? How do you explain God’s response to Abraham’s hospitality?`

It is not clear whether Abraham knew who these strangers were (Heb. 13:2), even though he acted toward them as if God Himself were among them. He was sitting “in the tent door in the heat of the day” (Gen. 18:1, NKJV), and because visitors are rare in the desert, he was probably longing to meet with them. Abraham ran toward the men (Gen. 18:2), although he was 99 years old. He called one of these persons Adonai, “my Lord” (Gen. 18:3), a title often used for God (Gen. 20:4, Exod. 15:17). He rushed around them in the preparation of the meal (Gen. 18:6, 7). He stood next to them, attentive to their needs and ready to serve them (Gen. 18:8).

Abraham’s behavior toward heavenly strangers will become an inspiring model of hospitality (Heb. 13:2). In fact, Abraham’s attitude of reverence conveys a philosophy of hospitality. Showing respect and care toward strangers is not just a nice gesture of courtesy. The Bible emphasizes that it is a religious duty, as if directed toward God Himself (compare with Matt. 25:35–40). Ironically, God is identified more with the hungry and needy foreigner than with the generous one who receives them.

On the other hand, the divine intrusion into the human sphere denotes His grace and love toward humanity. This appearance of God anticipates Christ, who left His heavenly home and became a human servant to reach humankind (Phil. 2:7, 8). God’s appearance here provides evidence for the certainty of His promise (Gen. 18:10, NKJV). He sees Sarah, who hides herself “behind him” (Gen. 18:10), and knows her most intimate thoughts (Gen. 18:12). He knows that she laughed, and the word “laugh” is His last word. Her skepticism becomes the place where He will fulfill His word.

`Dwell more on the idea that “God is identified more with the hungry and needy foreigner than with the generous one who receives them.” Why is this concept so important for us to remember?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In all ages, God has wrought through holy angels for the succor and deliverance of His people. Celestial beings have taken an active part in the affairs of men. They have appeared clothed in garments that shone as the lightning; they have come as men in the garb of wayfarers. Angels have appeared in human form to men of God. They have rested, as if weary, under the oaks at noon. They have accepted the hospitalities of human homes. They have acted as guides to benighted travelers. They have, with their own hands, kindled the fires at the altar. They have opened prison doors and set free the servants of the Lord. Clothed with the panoply of heaven, they came to roll away the stone from the Saviour’s tomb.<br/>
In the form of men, angels are often in the assemblies of the righteous; and they visit the assemblies of the wicked, as they went to Sodom, to make a record of their deeds, to determine whether they have passed the boundary of God’s forbearance. The Lord delights in mercy; and for the sake of a few who really serve Him, He restrains calamities and prolongs the tranquillity of multitudes.—The Great Controversy, pp. 631, 632.

The privilege granted Abraham and Lot is not denied to us. By showing hospitality to God’s children we, too, may receive His angels into our dwellings. Even in our day, angels in human form enter the homes of men and are entertained by them. And Christians who live in the light of God’s countenance are always accompanied by unseen angels, and these holy beings leave behind them a blessing in our homes.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, p. 342.

Christ says to His redeemed people, “Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me” (Matthew 25:34-36).<br/>
Prayers, exhortation, and talk are cheap fruits . . . but fruits that are manifested in good works, in caring for the needy, the fatherless, and widows, are genuine fruits, and grow naturally upon a good tree. . . . When hearts sympathize with hearts burdened with discouragement and grief, when the hand dispenses to the needy, when the naked are clothed, the stranger made welcome to a seat at your fireside and to a place in your heart, angels are coming very near, and an answering strain is responded to in heaven. Every act, every deed of justice and mercy and benevolence, makes sweet music ring in heaven. . . .<br/>
Every merciful act done to the needy, the suffering, is counted as though it were done to Jesus Himself. When you succor the poor, sympathize with the afflicted and oppressed, and befriend the orphan, you bring yourselves into a closer relationship to Jesus.—That I May Know Him, p. 335.