---
title: 'Respect God And Praise Him'
date: 15/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 14:7; Deuteronomy 6:2; Matthew 6:33; 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; Hebrews 4:14–16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “God’s people must learn to endure [be patient]. They must also obey his commands and have faith in [the faith that comes from] Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, CEV).

Writer Søren Kierkegaard tells a picture story about the end times: A fire started backstage in a big theater. A clown from the show came out to warn the audience about the fire. The clown shouted, “Get out! Get out! The place is on fire!” The audience thought the clown was just acting. They thought his warning was part of the play. So, they thought he was only joking. That’s all. So, they clapped their hands. The clown warned the audience again: “Get out! Get out!” But the more the clown warned the people, the more the people clapped. Kierkegaard used this story to show how the end times will be. Most people will think the warning about the end times is a funny story to laugh at.

We know that the end times are no joke. The most awful time since the Flood is coming. Peter uses the Flood as a word picture to show what will happen during the end times. Peter warns, “The day when the Lord comes again will surprise everyone like [the same as] the coming of a thief. The sky will disappear with a loud noise. Everything in the sky will be destroyed with fire. And the earth and everything in it will be burned up” (2 Peter 3:10, ERV). The Bible warns about what’s coming. So, we need to get ready now.