---
title: 'Respect God'
date: 16/04/2023
---

Jesus is coming soon. The book of Revelation helps God’s people get ready for Jesus’ Second Coming. The book of Revelation also shows God’s people the special work they must do. God’s people must join with Jesus in sharing His end-time message with other people on this earth. The book of Revelation shows God’s plans and shows us Satan’s evil plans, too. The book of Revelation shows us God’s final message and warning for everyone on earth.

`Read the end-time message in Revelation 14:7. (Then also read Genesis 22:12; Psalm 89:7; Proverbs 2:5; Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14; and Ephesians 5:21.) What does Revelation 14:7 tell us we must do?`

The Greek word for “fear” in Revelation 14:7 is “phobeo.” Fear in this verse does not mean we should be afraid of God. Fear means we should honor and respect Him. We also should be loyal to God. We should give our lives fully to Him and do what He wants. We should live for God and not for self. Compare this feeling to Lucifer’s behavior. Lucifer told himself, “ ‘I will go up to heaven. I will raise [put] my throne above the stars of God. And I will sit on the mount [high hill] of meeting in the far north. I will go much higher than the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High’ ” (Isaiah 14:13, 14, NLV).

When we “fear” God, we will live the way Jesus did. Jesus “was in every way like [the same as] God. . . . And when he was a man, he was humble [had no pride]. He was even [also] willing to die, yes, to die on a cross” (Philippians 2:6, 8, WE).

The worldwide war between God and Satan is about how we will answer one question: Will we obey God? Lucifer was selfish. He refused to respect anyone but himself. Lucifer refused to bow down to God on His throne. Lucifer wanted to push God off His throne and then sit there himself. When we “fear” God, we put Him first in our thoughts. We will say no to selfishness and pride. We will live fully for Jesus.

To “fear God” is very important because these words are the first words that the First Angel’s Message says.

So, we must obey.

What has been your experience with “fearing” God? How will you explain to someone that “fearing” God is good?