---
title: 'Respecting And Obeying God'
date: 17/04/2023
---

What else does the Bible teach us about “fearing” God? As we saw yesterday, to “fear” God means to respect Him.

`Read Deuteronomy 6:2; Psalm 119:73, 74; and Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14. What do these verses show us happens when we “fear” or respect God?`

These verses show us that “fearing” God is connected with keeping His commandments. When we “fear” God, we will respect Him. Our respect for God will lead us to obey Him. God wants His children to obey His commands (Ephesians 2:8–10). Yes, God’s mercy saves us because of our faith in Jesus. Even when we have God’s mercy, we must obey God’s commands. The Good News only makes us free from the punishment for breaking God’s law.

God’s mercy frees us from the guilt of our past sins. His mercy also helps us live obedient lives right now. That’s why Paul says, “Through [because of] Christ [Jesus], God gave me the special work of an apostle [teacher and leader]. This [special work] was to lead people of all nations [countries and people groups] to believe and obey. I do this work for Christ” (Romans 1:5, ICB).

Some people have a strange idea. They believe that their being saved with God’s mercy means they don’t need to obey God’s law. These people believe that obedience is the same as trying to save yourself by your own good behavior. They say, “All I want is Jesus.” The question is, “Which Jesus is that?” The Jesus from the Bible? Or a Jesus they invented? The real Jesus is from the Bible. The real Jesus never causes us to think that His law or teachings aren’t important. Bible truth shows us who Jesus is and His plan for people. The real Jesus is Bible truth. So, we can say that Bible truth is a Person. That person is Jesus. When we follow Bible truth, we are living as Jesus lived.

The book of Revelation commands us to accept Jesus and to have faith in everything He offers. When we “fear” God, we show we have faith in God to save us and to help us be obedient.

`Jesus said, “ ‘Do not fear people who can kill the body. They cannot kill the spirit. But fear the one who can destroy both spirit and body in hell’ ” (Matthew 10:28, WE). How do these words help us understand what it means to “fear” or respect God?`