---
title: 'Living For God'
date: 18/04/2023
---

What is the most important thing in your life? For some people, money is the most important thing in life. For other people, the most important thing is pleasure or having control. Other people may love sports, music, or entertainment more than anything else. Revelation’s message to us is an invitation to respect and honor God more than anything else in life.

`Read Matthew 6:33; Colossians 3:1, 2; and Hebrews 12:1, 2. What do these verses teach us about why God should be the most important part of our lives?`

What is the worldwide war between God and Satan really about? This war is a fight for the control of our minds. Who will we be loyal to? God or Satan?

So, the final fight in the worldwide war between good and evil is for the control of our thoughts. What can we do to win the fight? The Bible gives us the answer: “Think the same way Jesus Christ thought” (Philippians 2:5, WE). The word “think” shows us we must make a choice. We must choose to think the same way that Jesus thought. When we make this choice, we allow Jesus to fill our minds with good thoughts about everlasting life. Our behavior shows other people what is in our hearts and minds. When we fear or respect God, we put Him first in our lives.

So, how do we control our thoughts? The problem is that it’s easy to think bad thoughts when we don’t think about good things. So, we must try to think about the things God promised us. These good things wait for us in heaven. Our minds will think about the things of this earth if we let them. That’s only natural because we are sinners. So, we must train our minds to think about the things God promised us in heaven.

`Paul says, “Here, my brothers, are some things I want you to think about. Think about things that are true, honest, right, clean [without sin] and pure [holy], things that are lovely, and things that are good to talk about. If they [thoughts] are good, and if they bring praise to God, think about these things” (Philippians 4:8, WE). How do we learn to do what Paul tells us to do here?`