---
title: 'Praising And Honoring God'
date: 19/04/2023
---

The First Angel’s Message tells us to respect God and to praise Him (Revelation 14:7). We should praise and honor God (Joshua 7:19; 1 Samuel 6:5; Jeremiah 13:15, 16; Malachi 2:2) because He is our Judge. We see this same idea in Revelation 19:1, 2: “ ‘Thanks to our God, the One Who saves. Honor and power [control] belong to Him. For the way He punishes people is right [holy] and true [correct]’ ” (NLV).

`Read 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20; and 1 Corinthians 10:31. How do these verses help us understand how we may praise God and honor His name?`

Paul says that our bodies are the same as temples. The Holy Spirit lives in our temples and makes them holy. The Bible commands us to praise and honor God in every part of our lives. When we put God first, we will want to honor Him with the food we eat, with the clothes we wear, in our entertainment, and in our friendships. We give God praise and honor when we show His love to other people. We show His love by serving Him. We now live in the end times when God does His work as Judge. So, our showing God’s love to other people is very important work.

`Read Romans 12:1, 2. In these verses, what does Paul ask Christians to do? Why does he ask us to do this?`

Do you see the word written as “bodies” in Romans 12:1, 2? The Greek work for “bodies” in these verses is “somata.” This word means “everything you are,” which includes your body, mind, and heart. When we choose to praise God and honor Him, we give Him everything. We choose to serve Him with all of our thoughts, feelings, and life. When we serve God in this way, we worship Him. Our worship also includes obeying God.

`Think about everything you do with your body. What can you do to make sure you are praising God and honoring Him with your body?`