---
title: 'The Ones Who Win'
date: 20/04/2023
---

Revelation 14 shows us a picture of God’s loyal people in the end times: “God’s people must learn to endure [be patient]. They also must obey his commands and have faith in [the faith that comes from] Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, CEV). The only way anyone can obey God’s commandments is with the faith that Jesus gives us. Some Bibles name this faith the “faith in Jesus” (CEV). But a better way to write this verse is “the faith of Jesus.” The faith of Jesus is something more than “faith in Jesus.” The faith of Jesus is the faith that Jesus had. This faith helped Jesus win the war against sin and Satan. God wants to put this same faith in our hearts. When we show our faith, our faith grows. We win the fight against sin with Jesus’ help. He lives in us and works in our hearts. We win the fight not because of who we are but because of who Jesus is. We can win because Jesus won. We say no to sin because Jesus said no to sin.

`Read Hebrews 4:14–16 and Hebrews 7:25. How do we win the fight against sin? Also, how do we praise God and honor Him in our lives?`

Jesus is God’s Son. Jesus won the fight against Satan’s lies and tricks. What is the secret to Jesus’ success against sin? Jesus trusted in Bible promises. Jesus gave His life to the Father. Jesus trusted in the Father’s strength to help Him say no to sin. Jesus trusted God. Jesus looked to God. Jesus believed in God. When we do the same, we will win the fight against sin, too. Jesus is everything to us. The Three Angels’ Messages are all about Jesus. The message in the book of Revelation is all about winning, not losing. Revelation tells us about how God’s people win the fight against sin because they trust in God’s mercy and strength.

The word “wins” (Revelation 21:7, NLV, WE) is used 11 times in the book of Revelation. Christians from John’s time to our time have won the fight against sin. At the end time, the ones who win will get everything God promises (Revelation 21:7). They do not win because of their own good behavior. They win because they have faith in God’s mercy and everything that Jesus does for them.

`What sins in your life do you wish to win the fight against? What can you do to help win that fight?`