---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 21/04/2023
---

Think about Paul’s wonderful words in Hebrews 7:25: “So Christ [Jesus] can save those who come to God through [with the help of] him. Christ can do this forever, because he always lives and is ready to help people when they come before [to] God” (ERV). Do you see the words “can do this forever”? These words show us that Jesus can save us fully. Jesus’ job is to save us. Our job is to give our lives to Him so He can save us. We must accept His strength to fight against sin. We must trust in Him, not in ourselves. Then we will win the fight.

“The Bible tells us to ‘fear [respect and honor] God’ in Revelation 14:7. This command is God’s final invitation to us to choose Him. . . . Satan fights against God’s plan to save the human family. Then God will help us win the fight against evil (also read Revelation 14:9–11). How do we fear God? Does ‘fear’ mean we are scared of Him now the same as lost sinners will be at the Second Coming? (Read Revelation 6:14–17.) No. We show our ‘fear’ with the joy we feel when we obey God’s law. We ‘fear’ God when we love Him and worship Him. We shouldn’t  worship anyone or anything else but God. The only other choice in the worldwide war between God and Satan is death. The demons will suffer this punishment (Revelation 16:13, 14; Revelation 17:14; Revelation 20:11–15). So, when God asks us to fear Him, He invites us to join Him in the fight against Satan. God invites us to stand in front of His beauty. God invites us to be filled with happiness because we will enjoy everlasting fellowship with Him.”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages” (from an unpublished paper), page 27, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God is so much bigger and more powerful than we are. This same God will judge us. How do these ideas help us understand what it really means to fear or respect God?`

`Why must we understand that we are saved only because of Jesus, and not because of our own good behavior?`

`Why do we often fail to win the fight against sin? What mistakes do we make that stop God from doing the work in our hearts that He promised to do for us?`