---
title: 'God Chooses Ezra And Nehemiah'
date: 13/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

We see that God chooses Ezra to serve Him for many reasons. (1) Ezra wants to do everything God asks. (2) Ezra is a leader. And (3) he has strong skills. He is an excellent teacher and scribe. A scribe studies the law and makes copies of it. But there is one Bible verse that shows best why God gives Ezra a special job.

`What does Ezra 7:10 tell us about Ezra? The Bible says he “worked hard” to know and obey the Lord’s teachings (Ezra 7:10, ICB). What do you think Ezra does to get his heart ready to obey God’s law?`

The word in Ezra 7:10 written as “worked hard” is “kun” in Hebrew. “Kun” also can be written as “get ready” or “to make firm.” So, that helps us understanding the true meaning of Ezra 7:10. Ezra makes a strong decision to follow God.

After Ezra arrives in Jerusalem, he teaches Bible truth to God’s people. Ezra teaches them for 13 years. Then the people finish building the city’s walls. They announce that everyone should meet together. They do not force anyone to come. They want to do it. They do it because of the Bible truth that Ezra taught them.

`Why did God choose Nehemiah? Read Nehemiah 1:1–11 for the answer.`

Nehemiah has a heart for God and for the people. He is upset when he learns that the people stopped the work in Jerusalem. Nehemiah has a love for God’s work. He tells God he is willing to help finish the work. God answers his prayers and desires. Sometimes we get a silly idea in our heads. We believe that if we love doing something it must not be from God. We think that God will give us only hard tasks that we do not want to do. But that is not true! But God often gives us things to do that we will love. He wants us to love what we do for Him!

`In what ways has God chosen you to do things for Him that you love?`

_God wants us to love what we do for Him!_