---
title: 'At The Right Time'
date: 14/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

In lesson #1, we learned that God chooses Zerubbabel (around 538 b.c.) and Ezra (457 b.c.) to do special work. In lesson #2, we learned that God also chooses Nehemiah (444 b.c.). We need to understand that God chooses these men for a special reason. Why? Because the time comes for God to keep promises that He made long ago to His people. So, God chooses these three men to help Him. Let us look at the example of Zerubbabel. God chooses Zerubbabel to do a special work at the end of the 70 years that God’s people lived in Babylon. Jeremiah talks about God’s promise to free His people after 70 years.

`In what year does God choose Ezra to do important work? It is the same year that King Artaxerxes makes a special command. Why is that year important in Bible prophecy? Prophecy is a special message from God to His people. For the answer, read Daniel 9:24–27.`

The angel tells Daniel, “ ‘Here is what I want you to know and understand. There will be seven “weeks.” Then there will be 62 “weeks.” The seven “weeks” will begin [start] when an order is given to build Jerusalem and make it new again. At the end of the 62 “weeks,” the Anointed [God’s Chosen] will come’ ” (Daniel 9:25, NIrV). Daniel 9:27 talks about the last week of this time prophecy, or special message. We know that one week has seven days. We find a special Bible rule in Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:5, 6. These verses tell us that “days” in time prophecies are word pictures. One day equals one real year in Bible time prophecy. So, how long is one week in Bible time prophecy? One week equals seven real years. Do you see that the Bible time prophecy in Daniel 9:25 talks about 70 weeks? If we use the Bible rule for time messages, we see that Daniel 9:25 is talking about 490 real years.

When do these 70 weeks, or 490 real years, start? The Bible verse in Daniel 9:25 tells us. The 490 years start when the king gives the special command to rebuild Jerusalem. Three Persian kings give the Jews commands to rebuild: Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes. But Artaxerxes is the only king who commands the Jews to build again their city (Ezra 7:12–28). His command starts in 457 b.c., during his 7th year as king. (Read Ezra 7:7–26.)

_The 70 weeks, or 490 real years, start when King Artaxerxes commands the Jews to rebuild their city, in 457 b.c._