---
title: 'The 70 Weeks And The 2 300 Days'
date: 15/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Look at Daniel 9:24, ERV: “ ‘God has allowed [given] 70 weeks [490 years] for your people.’ ” The word written as “allowed” really means “cut off.” This word is not used anywhere else in the Bible. But we do find it outside the Bible in other Jewish writings. It means “cutting off” something from another thing that is longer. So, that helps us understand that the 70 weeks, or 490 real years, must be “cut off” from a longer time message somewhere else in the Bible. But where do we find this longer prophecy, or special time message? In Daniel chapter 8. There, we read about the 2,300 days, which also are 2,300 real years. 

`Read about Daniel’s dream in Daniel 8. What is the one part of Daniel’s dream that he does not understand? (Read Daniel 8:14, 26, 27 for the answer.)`

There are many reasons why the 70-week time message in Daniel 9:24–27 is part of the time message of the 2,300 days in Daniel 8:14. (1) Both are time prophecies, or special messages, that show what will happen in the future. (2) The angel Gabriel explains what both of these time messages mean (read Daniel 8:16 and Daniel 9:21). (3) The only part of the dream that Gabriel does not explain in Daniel 8 is the part about the 2,300 days in Daniel 8:14. (4) Daniel 8 tells the dream. Then Gabriel explains only part of it. Do you see that Daniel 9 has no dream and only an explanation? That is because it explains the only part of Daniel 8 that Gabriel does not make known to Daniel before. That part is the time message of the 2,300 days in Daniel 8:14. That is the only part of the dream that Daniel does not understand (read Daniel 8:27).

The book of Ezra gives us information that helps us understand the time messages in Daniel. Ezra helps us understand when the 2,300 days, or real years, start in history. When we know the correct date, then we will understand better Jesus’ work for us on the earth.

_When we know when the 2,300 days, or real years, start, we will understand better Jesus’ work for us on earth and in heaven._