---
title: 'God's Chosen People'
date: 16/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We believe that God chooses us for a special reason and for special work. Many Christians have different ideas about what that means. What does the Bible say about the subject?

`Read about God’s choosing us in Romans 8:28, 29. What is God’s plan for us?`

These verses tell us that God knew from the start who would choose to trust in Him. God chose us to “be like [the same as] his Son” (Romans 8:29, ERV) in their thoughts, feelings, and behavior. God did not choose who would be saved or lost. We have a choice. He did not take our choice away from us. God wants to change our hearts and minds. He wants our lives to show Jesus to everyone. God promises that He will change us in Romans 8:30. In that verse, Paul says that God chooses us. Then He makes us right with Him and makes us new. Then He makes us holy. We cannot change our lives. God promises to change us.

`Read Romans 9. In this chapter, what is God choosing us for?`

In Romans 9, Paul says that God chooses us to do special work. God chooses the Israelites to bring the good news about God to everyone on earth. Then God says, “As the Scriptures [the Bible] say, ‘I loved Jacob, but I hated Esau’ ” (Romans 9:13, ERV). People have trouble understanding this verse. They think it means that God loves only one of the brothers. But that thinking is wrong. Paul says that God chooses Jacob. But God does not choose Esau. What does God choose Jacob for? God chooses Jacob to be the father of Israel. So, we learn that there are two types of choosing that God does. First, God chooses everyone to be saved. He also wants to change us to be the same as His Son Jesus. Second, God chooses different people to do special work for Him.

`Why should you be happy to know that God chose you to be saved? At the same time, why are you always free to choose to reject God’s gift of everlasting life?`

_God chooses every one of us to be saved._
