---
title: 'Our Duty'
date: 17/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Yes, God chooses us to be saved. But we are free to accept His gift or turn from it. We also are free to accept the work He gives us or to turn away from it. God may put us somewhere to do special work for Him. But we can choose not to do that work. Yes, God wants us to do special things for Him in the same way that He wants us to become the same as Jesus. God’s choices for us are part of His plan to save us. When we do the special work that God gives us to do, we show to everyone that God saves.

God makes Saul the king of Israel. But Saul never gives his heart to God. Yes, God may choose someone to do  special work for Him. But that does not mean the person will obey God. God makes us free to choose. But if we do not follow God’s leading, we can lose everything. 

`Read Exodus 3 and 4. What do these chapters teach us about what happens when the Lord chooses someone to do special work?`

We can answer God the way Ezra and Nehemiah do. They obey God. They do not doubt Him. Or we can answer God the way Moses does. Moses has some fears about the job that God asks him to do. Moses obeys God in the end. But first he tells God that he does not think he is good enough to do the job. Why should the King of Egypt listen to Moses? Next, Moses worries that the Jewish people will not believe him or do what he says. Then, Moses feels that he does not have enough skills to do the job. “Then Moses says to the Lord, ‘But, Lord, I am telling you, I am not a good speaker. I have never been able to speak well. And that hasn’t [has not] changed since you started talking to me. I am still not a good speaker. You know that I speak slowly and don’t [do not] use the best words’ ” (Exodus 4:10, ERV). Finally, Moses tells God to send someone else. But Moses becomes a powerful leader. He is not perfect. But he is full of faith. He does the job God gave him to do.

`What excuses do we often make to not do the work we know that we should do?`

_Moses tells God to send someone else._