---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   18/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read carefully Prophets and Kings, pages 697–699, about the 70-week prophecy and when it happened in history.

“The Bible tells us many things before they happen. The Bible told us about Jesus’ First Coming. It told us when God planned to pour His Holy Spirit on Him. The Bible also told us about Jesus’ death before it happens. God gave the Jewish people these special messages, or time prophecies. God wanted His people to understand what was going to happen in the future. Everything God promised His people happened when Jesus came to the earth. Jesus told His followers that it was important to study Bible prophecies. In Matthew 24:15, Jesus told His followers to read about the prophecy for their time in the book of Daniel. That is why Jesus said, ‘You who read this should understand what it means.’ Matthew 24:15 [ERV]. After Jesus woke up from the dead, He explained to His followers ‘everything that had been written about himself in the Scriptures [the Bible].’ Luke 24:27 [ERV]. The Savior gave the prophets, or special messengers, their messages. ‘The Spirit of Christ was in those prophets. And the Spirit was telling about the sufferings that would happen to Christ and about the glory that would come after those sufferings.’ 1 Peter 1:11 [ERV].” —Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 234, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Think more about this idea: God chooses you to do something you love to do. What are some important rules you can follow to help you know you are doing what God wants?`

`2. Read the story about Jonah. How does Jonah answer God’s plan for his life? What lessons can we learn from Jonah’s experience? Now look at Paul’s example. What does Paul do when the Lord asked him to serve Him? (Read Acts 9:1–20.) Compare Jonah’s experience with Paul’s. How are they different?`

`3. Think about the story of Judas Iscariot. (Read The Desire of Ages, page 716.) Does God “choose” Judas to turn against Jesus? If so, how fair is that to Judas? God gives Judas many chances to do the right thing. But in the end, Judas makes the wrong choice. What does his story teach us about the power of free choice in our lives?`

_“[The Bible] told us when God planned to pour His Holy Spirit on [Jesus].”_