---
title:  The Lord of Inside and Outside
date:  06/05/2020
---

#### inVite

For true authenticity, the inner and outer component of ourselves must connect. The internal heart should inform and nourish the external manifestations of spiritual life. Despite what human inventions have been discovered through the centuries, this is something that no amount of research can do.

Paul writes about how true authenticity and holiness can correspond only through the creative power of God. “Therefore, from now on, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know Him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new. Now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Jesus Christ, and has given us the ministry of reconciliation, that is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation” (2 Cor. 5:16–19).

Paul’s conclusion is, “Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us: we implore you on Christ’s behalf, be reconciled to God” (v. 20). As Christ has died and resurrected in our hearts, we Christians should now live as ambassadors for Christ on the outside to represent Him.

Take some time to reflect on how we are ambassadors for the Lord Jesus Christ in the following areas. Are the topics listed below connected to God in our hearts? How are they being manifested on the outside? In which area do you need re-creation and God’s power?

Time Management / Sabbath Keeping

Reverence / Worship

Finances / Tithe

Health / Diet

Exercise / Nutrition

Modesty / Dress

Media / Internet

Relationships / Family

Marriage / Sexuality

``