---
title:  The Gospel According to Jesus
date:  04/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 1:14, 15. What are the three parts of the gospel message that Jesus proclaimed?`

Mark summarizes here the simple and direct message of Jesus. Its three parts are illustrated in the following table:

Category
						
						
							Content
						
					
					
						
							Time Prophecy
						
						
							The time is fulfilled.
						
					
					
						
							Covenant Promise
						
						
							The kingdom of God is near.
						
					
					
						
							Call to Discipleship
						
						
							Repent and believe the gospel.

The time prophecy to which Jesus refers is the 70-week prophecy of Daniel 9:24–27. This prophecy finds fulfillment in the baptism of Jesus, where He is anointed with the Holy Spirit and begins His ministry (Acts 10:38). The amazing 70-week prophecy is illustrated in the following chart:

In this prophecy, one day stands for one year (Num. 14:34, Ezek. 4:6). The prophecy began in 457 b.c. with the decree issued by Artaxerxes, king of Persia, completing the work of restoring Jerusalem (see Ezra 7).

Sixty-nine prophetic weeks would extend to a.d. 27, the time when Jesus was baptized and anointed with the Holy Spirit at the commencement of His ministry.

His crucifixion would take place three and a half years later.

Finally, the completion of the seventieth week would occur in a.d. 34 when Stephen was stoned and the gospel message started going to the Gentiles as well as to the Jews.

`When was the last time you studied the 70-week prophecy? How can knowing this prophecy help increase your faith not only in Jesus but in the trustworthiness of the prophetic Word?`