---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Voice in the Wilderness,” pp. 97–108, in _The Desire of Ages_; and “Heralds of the Gospel,” pp. 166–176, in _The Acts of the Apostles_.

How fascinating that Revelation 14:6, 7, the first angel’s message, parallels the gospel message of Jesus in Mark 1:15.

The first angel brings the everlasting gospel to the world in the last days in preparation for the Second Coming. Just like the message of Jesus, the angel’s end-time gospel has the same three elements as illustrated in the table below:

| Mark 1 | Category | Revelation 14 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Time Fulfilled (Daniel 9) | Time Prophecy | Judgment Hour (Daniel 7, 8) |
| Kingdom Near | Covenant Promise | Everlasting Gospel |
| Repent, Believe | Call to Discipleship | Fear, Glorify, Worship God |

The first angel’s message announces the beginning of the pre-Advent judgment, which began in 1844 and was predicted in the 2,300-day prophecy of Daniel 8:14. The judgment brings the kingdom of God to His persecuted people (Dan. 7:22). The first angel’s call to fear, glorify, and worship God is the call to discipleship, issued to the world in the last days as the beast powers of Revelation 13 present a false god to fear, glorify, and worship.

Just as Jesus’ message in Mark 1 is intimately tied to the prophecies of Daniel at the beginning of the gospel proclamation, so the first angel’s message is as well tied to Daniel at the close of earth’s history.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Compare and contrast John the Baptist and Jesus in Mark 1:1–13. What special lessons do you learn from the way they are presented?`

`Consider the meaning of baptism. Read Romans 6:1–4 and John 3:1–8, and compare them with the baptism of Jesus in Mark 1:9–13. What parallels and contrasts do you see? How does this help you understand more clearly the meaning of baptism?`

`Compare and contrast the gospel according to Jesus in Mark 1:14, 15 and the first angel’s message in Revelation 14:6, 7. How does understanding these messages help you see better your mission for today?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Selected Messages_, “John Called to a Special Work,” book 1, pp. 411, 412.\
_The Acts of the Apostles_, “Heralds of the Gospel,” pp. 166–176.