---
title:  WORSHIP THE GOD WHO MADE US
date:   03/08/2019
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Psalm 115:1–8; Deuteronomy 10:17–22; Isaiah 1:10–17; Isaiah 58; Mark 12:38–40.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p>
> “ ‘Here is the way I want you to fast [eat no food for a time]. Set [make] free those who are held by chains without any [for no] reason. Untie the ropes that hold people as slaves. Set free those who are crushed [hurt by people in power]. Break every evil chain. Share your food with hungry people. Provide homeless people with a place to stay. Give naked people clothes to wear. Provide for the needs of your own family’ ” (Isaiah 58:6, 7, NIrV).

**WHAT DO YOU SEE** when you read the books by the Old Testament prophets? Prophets were God’s special messengers. When you read their books, you see that the prophets cared a lot about the poor. They got very mad about the evil things that people from other lands did to the poor (read Amos 1 and 2). But they felt even more upset when God’s own people did the same bad things to the poor and needy. God gave His people many blessings and gifts. So, God’s people knew they should be kind to the poor. But that did not always happen. The prophets had a lot to say about that. 

It is interesting to see that God’s prophets also had a lot to say about worship. When they talked about worship, they often talked about being fair and kind to the poor. As we will see, true worship is not something that happens only in church. True worship is about our showing other people that God cares for them.  

_True worship is about our showing other people that God cares for them._