---
title: 'Worshiping False Gods And Not Being Fair To People'
date: 04/08/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God led His people out of Egypt. Then He met with them at Mount Sinai. There, God gave His people the Ten Commandments. The first two commandments are about not worshiping other gods and not making statues of false gods (read Exodus 20:2–6). The people promised God that they will obey everything He tells them. They promised to live as His people (read Exodus 24:1–13). 

Then Moses went up the mountain to meet with God. He was gone for almost six weeks. The people started to wonder what happened to Moses. Did he die on the mountain? So, the people told Aaron to make them a god from gold. Aaron made them a golden cow to worship. The people killed animals and offered them as gifts to their new “god.” After that, the people “sat down to eat and drink. Then they got up and had a wild party” (Exodus 32:6, ERV). Both the Lord and Moses were very angry at how fast the people turned away from God to worship the false god made from gold. Moses asked God to forgive the people. Moses’ prayer saved Israel from being destroyed (read Exodus 32:30–34). 

That was not the only time Israel worshiped false gods. The history of Israel shows us that God’s people worshiped false gods again and again. Some of the kings of Israel and Judah led God’s people to do very evil things. So, God sent His special messengers, or prophets, to tell His people to come back to Him. During these times, the prophets also asked God’s people to take care of the poor, the needy, and the helpless too. 

`Read Psalm 115:1–8. What important lesson does this psalm teach us?`

As humans, we become the same as the thing or person we worship. So, it is only natural that God’s people stopped caring about other people when they turn away from Him. They stopped caring about being fair too. When God’s people chose to worship other gods, the people changed their minds and feelings about a lot of other things. One of those things included how they cared about other people. What happens when God’s people stay loyal to the Lord? Then they will share His love for people in need. 

`How do we become the same as what we worship?`

_Moses’ prayer saves Israel from being destroyed (read Exodus 32:30–34)._