---
title: 'A Reason To Worship'
date: 05/08/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible tells God’s people to worship Him. The Bible also tells us the reasons why we should worship Him. We should worship Him because He is God and has done wonderful things for us. He is kind, loving, and fair. He shows mercy to His people. The Cross shows us God’s love. When we think about all the good things God does, we always will have a reason to worship and praise God. 

`Read Deuteronomy 10:17–22; Psalm 101:1; Psalm 146:5–10; Isaiah 5:16; and Isaiah 61:11. What reasons do these verses give us for worshiping and praising God?`

These reasons are not new. God’s people knew about them. Israel had many powerful worship experiences after God freed them from Egypt. The people crossed the Red Sea. Then Moses and Miriam led the people in singing praises to God. They praised God for everything He did to save them (read Exodus 15).

God is a God of mercy. He is fair. He wanted His people to remember these things about Him. So, God’s people told wonderful stories about Him again and again. We can read about a time in Deuteronomy 10:17–22 when God’s people worshiped Him. They told each other all the wonderful things God did.

As we said, God is fair. It is a part of who He is. “ ‘The truth is that God does no wrong. God All-Powerful is always fair’ ” (Job 34:12, ERV). God cares about what is good and right. That is a reason to worship and praise Him.

We can see God’s love for what is good and right. We see His love in the way that He takes care of people who are poor and helpless. God’s mercy is more than a word or an idea. It is real. The Bible shows us that God “ ‘hears the cry of the needy [people in need]’ ” (Job 34:28, ICB). God wants to make right the things that are wrong on this earth. When will this fully happen? When God judges everyone on this earth and then makes everything new.

`God’s people in Old Testament times had many reasons to praise the Lord. We have more reasons than they do. What reasons does the Cross give us to praise God?`

_Moses and Miriam led the people in singing praises to God._