---
title: 'People Who Use Religion To Hurt Other People'
date: 06/08/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

There were times in the Old Testament when God’s people turned away from false gods. They came back to God. But their worship was not exactly what God wanted it to be. The people mixed their worship of God with the religions of the people around them. So, their worship was not true. It was not enough to turn them away from doing evil in their everyday lives. The people worked very hard to be religious. But their praise music did not hide the cries of the poor and the helpless.

Amos showed the people in his day the evil that was in their hearts. He said to them, “ ‘You who trample [step]on helpless people. You are trying to destroy the poor of this country’ ” (Amos 8:4, ERV). Amos saw that his people wanted to get done with worship. They wanted to get back to making money. They made money by cheating other people and doing things that were not right. These people said, “ ‘The poor cannot pay their loans, so we will buy them as slaves. We will buy those helpless people for the price of a pair of sandals. Oh, and we can sell the wheat that was spilled [has no value or worth] on the floor’ ” (Amos 8:6, ERV). 

`Read Isaiah 1:10–17; Amos 5:21–24; and Micah 6:6–8. What did the Lord say to these religious people about the way they worshiped?`

God uses His prophets, or special messengers, to talk to His people. God makes fun of their worship. Why? Because as we learned, His people did not take care of the poor. People were in need all around. But God’s people did nothing to help anyone. In Amos 5:21–24, God says He “hates” His people’s festivals. He hates the way they worship Him. He says their religious meetings “stink [smell very bad]” to Him. He does not enjoy them. God says His people’s offerings and music have no value. Micah asks, “ ‘Will the Lord be pleased with a thousand rams or with ten thousand rivers of oil? Should I offer him my first child to pay for my wrongs?’ ” (Micah 6:7, ERV). Of course not! Micah only says shocking things to get the people’s attention. In the end, God really wanted His people to “ ‘be fair to other people. Love kindness [being kind] and loyalty, and humbly obey your God’ ” (Micah 6:8, ERV).

_“ ‘The poor cannot pay their loans, so we will buy them as slaves. We will buy those helpless people for the price of a pair of sandals’ ” (Amos 8:6, ERV)._
