---
title: 'A Way To Worship'
date: 07/08/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God’s special messengers teach that there is a special connection between worship and being fair. They also teach us that our taking care of people who are in need is an important part of worship. Isaiah 58 shows us this truth.

`Read Isaiah 58. How does this chapter show us what went wrong between God and His people?`

Who are the people that Isaiah talks to in this chapter? They are religious. They want to worship God. But their worship is not working. So, God says they should change their worship. They should try a different way of serving God. God wants His people to worship Him by “ ‘free[ing] the people you have put in prison unfairly. Undo [take away] their chains. Free those [people] to whom you are unfair. Free them from their hard [unfair] labor [work]’ ” (Isaiah 58:6, ICB). God also wanted His people to feed the hungry and help people in need of clothes and homes. These are the ways God wants His people to worship Him.

These are not the only ways. But God says that these kind acts please Him more than the way that His people worshiped Him. What do these kind acts teach us about worship? They teach us that worship is not about taking care of ourselves. Worship is about taking care of other people. We worship God by helping other people. Then we bless everyone around us. “Religion must free men from the power of sin. Religion changes hearts. It gets rid of feelings of hate. It helps us to be fair. It causes us to love freedom and peace.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 4, page 306, adapted. 

In Isaiah 58:8–12, God promises to bless His people when they worship in this way. So, God’s people should care more about other people. Then God will work with them. He will heal them. He will make their lives new. Isaiah 58 also shows us a connection between worship and keeping the Sabbath. Isaiah 58 shows the strong connection between keeping the Sabbath and working for God too. Ellen G. White wrote about these verses: “God wants Sabbath keepers to show mercy to people. He wants us to take care of them.”—Welfare [the help we give to people in need] Ministry [work done for God], page 121, adapted.

_We worship God by helping other people._