---
title: 'Mercy And Loyalty'
date: 08/08/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some of the leaders in Jesus’ day got upset at Jesus for eating with “sinners.” Jesus answered them by saying the words from Hosea. Jesus told the leaders to go back to their religious books and learn what God really meant when He said, “ ‘I don’t [do not] want animal sacrifices [offerings; gifts]; I want you to show kindness [being kind] to people’ ” (Matthew 9:13, ERV, from Hosea 6:6).

As we will see, Jesus showed that He cared for other people. He served people His whole life. His miracles and His picture stories showed this powerful truth. Jesus taught that serving other people was the best way to show our faith and loyalty to God. The religious leaders in Jesus’ days were no different than the religious leaders in Isaiah’s day. They believed that their works and worship saved them. At the same time, they cheated the poor and used them. They did not care about the needy. Their worship was a lie. That made Jesus angry. He did not hide how much He hated their selfish hearts and evil ways.

`Read Mark 12:38–40. In these verses, Jesus warns: “ ‘Be careful of the teachers of the law. . . . They cheat widows and take their homes’ ” (Mark 12:38, ERV). Why do you think Jesus talks about that? Also, what does Jesus mean when He says, “ ‘God will punish them very much’ ” (Mark 12:40, ERV)?`

Jesus preaches a powerful sermon in Matthew 23. He talks about religious leaders and teachers. He says that their religion does not make them better people. They do not help the poor and the needy. These religious leaders and teachers show they do not care about helping anyone. Jesus says to them, “ ‘You shut the door of the kingdom of heaven in people’s faces’ ” (Matthew 23:13, NIrV).

Jesus warns them, “ ‘It will be bad for you teachers of the law and you Pharisees [Jewish religious leaders]! You are hypocrites [people who pretend to be someone they are not]! You give God a tenth [1/10] of the food you get, even your mint, dill, and cumin [a spice]. But you don’t [do not] obey the really important teachings of the law—being fair, showing mercy, and being faithful [obedient]’ ” (Matthew 23:23, ERV). Jesus also said that the religious leaders and teachers were not wrong to give God 10%. But they also should help the poor.

_Jesus says to the religious leaders, “ ‘You shut the door of the kingdom of heaven in people’s faces’ ” (Matthew 23:13, NIrV)._