---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   09/08/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “Isaiah 58—A Divine Prescription,” pages 29–34, in Welfare Ministry; “Woes on the Pharisees,” pages 610–620, in The Desire of Ages. 

“I have been shown that I must tell our people to read Isaiah chapter 58. Read this chapter carefully. It is about the work we must do for God. This work for God will cause the churches to have new life. We must share the Good News. We also must use our offerings to do it. When you meet people who need help, then help them. When you find hungry people, feed them. When you do this work, you do the same work Jesus did while He was on this earth. Jesus’ work was holy. He did good to other people. Let our people everywhere feel encouraged to do their part in Jesus’ work.”—Ellen G. White, Welfare [the help we give to people in need] Ministry [work done for God], page 29, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Have you ever thought that being fair and showing mercy to people are acts of worship? How do you think this thought can change the way you take care of other people? How do you think it can change the way you worship?`

`2.	Jesus accused the religious leaders of not remembering to “ ‘obey the really important teachings of the law—being fair, showing mercy, and being faithful [obedient]’ ” (Matthew 23:23, ERV). What can we do to make sure we always remember to be fair and show mercy to the people in our lives, our homes, our churches, and our communities? Can you remember a time when you put things that were not important first in your life?`

`3.	Why is it wrong to say we believe we should do something but then not do it? That is the same as putting on a “false face,” right? Why is it wrong to make people think we are better than we really are?`

`4.	God cares deeply for the poor and needy. How does God’s love for them change your heart?`

_“When you find hungry people, feed them.”_