---
title:  Make Your Choice Today!
date:  20/12/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Joshua 24:2–13; Joshua 24:14, 15; Joshua 24:16–18; Joshua 24:22–24; Joshua 24:29–33.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘But maybe you don’t want to serve the Lord. You must choose for yourselves today. . . . As for me and my family, we will serve the Lord’ ” (Joshua 24:15, ICB).

In the last chapter of Joshua, the people agree again to serve God. Joshua, their leader, helps Israel to make this promise. In this final chapter, we see that Israel’s agreement has the same parts as other agreements from that time. These agreements or promises have seven parts. (1) The agreement has a beginning. The beginning of the agreement names the person who is making the promise. (2) Also, the beginning contains history. The history talks about the relationship between the groups who are making the agreement. (3) The agreement talks about how one group or person must be loyal to the other person in the agreement. (4) The agreement contains a list of blessings for keeping the promise and curses for breaking it. (5) The agreement names the witnesses. (6) A record of the promise is made for the future. And (7) the promise is made legal.

Joshua is at the end of his life. But Joshua doesn’t name anyone to replace him as leader. The Israelites don’t need a human king. God is their leader. If the Israelites stay loyal to God, He will lead and protect them. The agreement helps the people remember that their king is the Lord.