---
title:  You Were There!
date:  21/12/2025
---

“Then all the tribes [the 12 family groups] of Israel met together at Shechem. Joshua called [invited] them all together there. Then he called [sent for] the elders [religious leaders], heads [leaders] of families, judges and officers of Israel. These men stood before [in front of] God” (Joshua 24:1, ICB).

Abraham built an altar at Shechem. Shechem was the place where God first gave Abraham the promise about the land (Genesis 12:6, 7). Now, God keeps His promise to Abraham at last. God gives the land to Israel. So, Israel makes new the agreement with God. The people promise to serve the Lord at the very place where God first promised Israel the land. Joshua’s words at this time help us to remember the words of Jacob about false gods. Joshua says, “ ‘Throw away the statues of the gods that are among [with] you’ ” (Joshua 24:23, NIrV; compare with Genesis 35:2–4). Shechem helps the Israelites to remember that they must be loyal to God. They must reject all other “gods.”

`What is God’s message to Israel? Read Joshua 24:2–13 for the answer.`

Look at what God says He did for Israel. God “took,” “gave,” “sent,” “punished,” “helped Israel escape,” “made Israel free,” and so on. God did all those things, not Israel. God made Israel. If God hadn’t chosen Abraham to serve Him, the Israelites would be worshiping false gods. Israel is a country because of God’s mercy. So, the Israelites must not brag that they settled the land on their own. Their living in the land is proof that they should serve God.

The Lord’s message talks about “you” (Israel) and “they” (Israel’s fathers). The Lord talks about Israel now and their fathers in the past as if they were all one group. Joshua wants to show a Bible truth that Moses already taught Israel in Deuteronomy 5:3. The Lord didn’t make His promise only with the Israelites in the past. The Lord’s promise is also for the Israelites who hear Joshua’s message. Most of these Israelites weren’t alive when God helped His people escape Egypt. But Joshua says that all of them were there. Why? Because he wants the new Israelites to understand that the things God did for Israel in the past, He also did for them. He will work for them now, too.