---
title:  With Honesty And Truth
date:  22/12/2025
---

`What did Joshua ask the Israelites to do? Read Joshua 24:14, 15 for the answer. What does it mean to serve the Lord with honesty and truth?`

Joshua asks the Israelites to choose if they want to continue to be God’s special people. The choice is up to them. They must decide to stay loyal to God and live in the land. Or they can go back to worshiping false gods. Then they will become the same as the people around them. The people around them have no special relationship with God or special work to do for Him.

If the Israelites choose the Lord, they must respect and serve Him with honest hearts. They must follow Bible truth. To respect the Lord means that we understand that our God is holy and everlasting. God is all-powerful and wonderful. We, on the other hand, are small. Our lives have a beginning and an end. We are sinners. To fear God is to accept His work for us. We also will accept Him as our Father in heaven and our King. When we believe these things, we will live obedient lives (Leviticus 19:14; Leviticus 25:17; Deuteronomy 17:19; 2 Kings 17:34). When we respect God, we also will serve Him.

How do we serve God? In two ways. (1) We serve Him with an “honest life.” (2) We also “live Bible truth.” An “honest life” comes from a Hebrew word that mostly is used to talk about animal offerings. The Hebrews must bring only perfect animal offerings to the Lord. When we “live Bible truth,” we will show we are loyal to God. God’s love shows us who He is. God is loyal. He keeps all His promises.

A loyal person is dependable. We can trust him. Joshua asks the Israelites to show the same loyalty to God that God shows to them. Our hearts must match our behavior. Our lives should show everyone that we are grateful to God for everything He does for us.

`What does it mean to you to serve the Lord with honesty and Bible truth? What are some of the things that keep you from doing that?`