---
title:  Free To Serve
date:  23/12/2025
---

Joshua respects the free will of his people. He wants the Israelites to serve God because of their free choice. Joshua doesn’t want Israel to feel forced to serve God. That’s why Joshua reminds the Israelites that they freely chose to serve the Lord (read Joshua 24:22). In other verses, Moses also talks about how God chose Israel to be His special people (Deuteronomy 7:6, 7; Deuteronomy 10:15; Deuteronomy 14:2). Israel is free to say “no” to the Lord after He chooses them. But that would be silly and foolish. Israel can choose to say “yes” to God. Then the people can continue to live and enjoy success. Or they can reject God and die.

`What was the Israelites’ answer to Joshua’s invitation (Joshua 24:16–18)? What did Joshua say when he heard their answer? Why do you think he said these things? Read Joshua 24:19–21 for the answer.`

In their answer, the Israelites show that they understand that the God of their fathers is now their God (Joshua 24:17, 18). The Israelites are willing to serve God with their whole hearts. After this promise, you’d think that Joshua would say something encouraging and nice. But that’s not what happens. Joshua changes his topic. He stops talking about God’s love in the past. Now Joshua gives the Israelites a warning: God is not always easy to serve.

Joshua knows how the Israelites in the desert easily promised to obey God after He helped them to escape from Egypt (Exodus 19:8; Exodus 24:3; Deuteronomy 5:27). But those same Israelites forgot their promises even as they made them (Exodus 32)! So, Joshua wants to make sure the Israelites under his command understand some things. First, the decision to serve God is very important. Their decision will change their lives. They must live for God and follow His rules. If they do, God will bless them. But if they disobey, they will suffer. Joshua wants them to understand fully what they are promising.

Second, the Israelites must make their own decision to serve God. Joshua can’t make that decision for them.

Third, Israel must know that humans can’t serve God in their own strength. We need God. We can’t serve God with our own good behavior. We must have a personal relationship with God first. He must save us. Then we may serve Him (compare with Exodus 20:1, 2; Deuteronomy 5:6, 7).