---
title:  The Dangers Of Worshiping False Gods
date:  24/12/2025
---

`Why would Joshua need to ask the Israelites to get rid of the statues of false gods? Read Joshua 24:22–24 for the answer.`

Earlier on the plains of Moab, Moses asked the Israelites to follow the Lord completely (Deuteronomy 30:19, 20). The gods that Joshua talked about are not the gods of Egypt or the gods that belong to the people in the land of Canaan. No, these are the statues of false gods that belong to the Israelites. So, now Joshua also asks his people to give their hearts completely to the Lord. If the people give their hearts fully to the Lord, the Lord will hear their prayers (2 Kings 19:16; Psalm 31:2, 3; Daniel 9:18). Later, God’s special messengers will ask the Israelites to give their hearts fully to the Lord and to obey Him (Isaiah 55:3; Jeremiah 7:24). Sad to say, Solomon and other kings served foreign gods (1 Kings 11:2, 4, 9). Without God’s help, we are as bad as Solomon. Our hearts are filled with sin. We can’t obey God on our own. We must decide to obey Him. Then we must ask Him for help to serve Him fully.

The Israelites answer that they will listen to God’s voice. Their answer shows that they are promising to obey God. God isn’t asking Israel to follow lifeless or dead rules. God’s promise with Israel is about having a living relationship with Him. The Israelites’ religion wasn’t about being saved with their own good behavior. Their religion was about having a living relationship with a loving God.

Israel’s promise to serve God includes the promise to throw away the statues of false gods. But we don’t know if the Israelites kept their promise. Whenever Joshua commanded Israel to do something, the book of Joshua ­re­ported on how the Israelites kept their promises. But there is no report at the end of the book of Joshua about their throwing out the false gods.

Joshua’s invitation to Israel to serve God also is for us today. We must choose to serve the Lord. We also must throw out all of our false gods or idols.

`How often do you promise the Lord you will do something? Do you do what you promise? If no, why not? What does your answer tell you about God’s patient mercy?`