---
title:  Fighting The Good Fight
date:  25/12/2025
---

`Read the last words in the book of Joshua (Joshua 24:29–33). How do these words look back over Joshua’s life? What do these verses say about the future?`

The end of the book of Joshua tells us that Joshua and Eleazar die. Eleazar is the high priest or top religious ­leader. The writer talks about Joshua and Eleazar being buried. Then the writer talks about Joseph’s bones. Joseph’s bones are a symbol for life outside the Promised Land. The graves of Joshua and Eleazar are symbols of the new life in the land. The writer compares the graves with the bones to show us that the Israelites don’t need to wander anymore. They don’t need to carry Joshua or Eleazar’s bones along with them as they carried Joseph’s. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob buried their family members in a cave (Genesis 23:13, 19; Genesis 25:9, 10). Abraham bought this land at Shechem (Genesis 33:19). Now the Israelites can bury their leaders in the land that God gave them. This land is their home. The graves help Israel to remember that God kept His promises to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

The last verses of the book of Joshua connect the story of the book to Israel’s past history. This connection helps the Israelites also to look to the Lord to lead them in the future.

With Joshua’s death, an amazing chapter in the history of Israel comes to an end. Israel’s future depends on how the people will answer the following question: Will they be loyal to the Lord? Will they hold tight to the Lord? Will they throw away their false gods? The Israelites in Joshua’s day were loyal to the Lord and His law. But will the Israelites after them continue to be obedient? The Israelites in every age in the future will need to answer these questions. Their success as a people depends on the answers they give in their everyday lives. Will their lives show that they love the Bible truths that God gave them?

`Both Joshua and Paul “fought the good fight” (2 Timothy 4:7, ERV). Why was Joshua a success? What decisions do you need to make today to finish life with the same success?`