---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  26/12/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Last Words of Joshua,” pages 522–524, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Joshua wrote down Israel’s promise in the book of the law. Then Joshua put a big stone under an oak tree near the Lord’s holy tent. ‘Then Joshua said to all the people, “This stone will help you remember what we said today. This stone was here when the Lord was speaking to us today. So this stone will be something that helps you remember what happened today. The stone will be a witness against you. It will stop you from turning against your God.” ’ [Joshua 24:27, ERV]. Joshua announces that his warning to the people is not his own words. The warning is from God. This big stone will be a memorial. This memorial will help the Israelites in the future to remember this time. The stone also would be a witness against the people if they start to worship false gods.”—Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, May 26, 1881, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Joshua said that the Lord “ ‘is a holy God. And he is a jealous God’ ” (Joshua 24:19, ICB). What does the Bible mean when it says that God is jealous? Jealous of what?`

`How does understanding “free will” help us love God? Can anyone force you to love someone? If yes, can that love be real? If no, why not?`

`How can today’s church leaders help the young people get ready to serve and lead the church in the future?`

`Think about the idea that the Israelites served the Lord for all of Joshua’s life. At the end of your life, what would you like people to say about you?`