---
title:  Set Free in Christ
date:   02/09/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 5:1–15; 1 Corinthians 6:20; Romans 8:1; Hebrews 2:14, 15.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “My brothers and sisters, you were chosen to be free. But [do not] use your freedom as an excuse to live under the power of sin. Instead, serve one another in love” (Galatians 5:13, NIrV).

In galatians 2:4, Paul spends a short time talking about the importance of protecting the “freedom” we have in Christ Jesus. Paul speaks about freedom so often. But what does he mean? What does this freedom include? How far does this freedom go? Does it have any limits? And what connection is there between freedom and Christ and the law?

Paul answers these questions by warning the Galatians of two dangers: (1) The first danger is trying to earn God’s approval and love through obeying the law. Paul’s attackers in Galatia are so caught up in earning God’s approval. They forget the salvation they already have in Christ. They forget how Christ set them free. (2) The second danger Paul warns the Galatians about is not to fall into sin. Falling into sin would abuse the freedom Christ purchased for them. Some believed that being saved freed one to sin. They believed that true spiritual freedom and the law were against each other. But they were mistaken.

These two dangers are very real for Christians today, as well. They make slaves of believers again. Paul begs the Galatians to stand strong in the true freedom that comes from Christ. This freedom is Christ’s gift to His church.