---
title:  Christ sets us free
date:   03/09/2017
---

_Galatians 1:3, 4_

Paul commands the Galatians not to surrender their freedom in Christ. He talks to them as a military leader would speak to his doubtful troops. The power and force of Paul’s words make them seem to jump off the page! That force tells us Paul wants his words in Galatians 5:1 to stand out in the way a giant billboard or large sign does. Being made free is what Paul’s whole argument is about. And the Galatians are in danger of giving that freedom away.

`Read Galatians 1:3, 4; Galatians 2:16; and Galatians 3:13. What are some of the word pictures Paul uses in these verses? And how do they help explain what Christ has done for us?`

Notice Paul’s words in Galatians 5:1: “Christ has set us free to enjoy our freedom” (NIrV). These words seem to hint at one of the word pictures Paul has in mind. This verse uses a lot of the same language found in the special set of words used in Bible times to free slaves. Slaves had no legal rights. It was believed a god could buy their freedom. Then the slaves would be free. But really, the slaves belonged to the god.

Yet, in the real world, the god did not provide money to set the slaves free. Instead, slaves paid money to the temple for their freedom. Look at the wording of a bill of sale for a slave found at the temple of Apollo, around 201 B.C. to A.D. 100: “Apollo the sun god bought a female slave from Sosibus of Amphissa. Her name is Nicaea. . . . But Nicaea has bought her freedom from Apollo.”—Adapted, Ben Witherington III, Grace in Galatia (Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1988), page 340.

In some ways, this bill of sale uses the same wording as Paul does in Galatians 5:1. But there is one main difference. In Paul’s word picture, God buys the slave’s freedom. We do not provide the money for our freedom ourselves (1 Corinthians 6:20; 1 Corinthians 7:23). The price costs too much for us to pay. So, Jesus did for us what we could not do. He paid the debt for our sins. Then He freed us from the punishment that came with that debt.

`Do you ever think you could save yourself? What should your answer tell you about how thankful you should be for what we have been given in Jesus?`