---
title:  What it means to be free in Christ
date:   04/09/2017
---

_Romans 6:14, 18_

Paul commands the Galatians to stand strong in their freedom. Paul also shares an important fact right before this command. He says, Christ has “set us free” (Galatians 1:4, NIrV). That fact is the reason Christians should stand strong in their freedom. So this truth means that our freedom is a result of what Christ already has done for us.

Paul often makes a statement of fact. Then he follows that fact with a request for his readers to do something. Paul follows this same pattern in a lot of his letters (1 Corinthians 6:20; 1 Corinthians 10:13, 14; Colossians 2:6). For example, look at Romans 6. In this chapter, Paul makes several statements of fact about what it means to be in Christ. He says, “What we used to be was nailed to the cross with him” (Romans 6:6, NIrV). Then Paul uses this fact as the reason for asking the Roman believers to protect themselves against sin: “So [do not] let sin rule your body” (Romans 6:12, NIrV). The gospel is not about doing good things to become God’s children. Instead, we do good things because we already are God’s children.

`Read Romans 6:14, 18; Romans 8:1; Galatians 4:3, 8; Galatians 5:1; and Hebrews 2:14, 15. What do these verses say Christ has freed us from?`

Paul uses the word “freedom” to describe the Christian life. He uses this word in this way more than any other writer in the New Testament. The word “freedom” and other forms of the word occur 28 times in Paul’s letters. But the word is found only 13 times elsewhere in the New Testament.

What does Paul mean by freedom? This freedom is not the freedom to live any way we want. No, it is a freedom that starts with our relationship to Jesus Christ. It includes freedom from sin, eternal death, and the devil.

“Outside of Jesus, our lives are lived in slavery. We are slaves to the law. We are slaves to the evil that controls the world. We are slaves to sin. We are slaves to our fallen flesh and to the devil. God sent His Son into the world to break the power of all these slaveholders.”—Adapted, Timothy George, Galatians, page 354.

`To what things in life do you feel you are a slave? Memorize Galatians 5:1. Now ask God to make the freedom you have in Christ real in your life.`