---
title:  The dangers of salvation through works
date:   05/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:2–12_

The way Paul begins Galatians 5:2–12 shows the importance of what he is about to say: “Look” (ESV); “Listen!” (NRSV); “Mark [pay attention to] my words!” (NIV); and “Here is what I, Paul, say to you” (NIrV). All these different translations of Galatians 5:2 show that Paul means what he says. His use of the word “Look” is forceful. It commands his readers to give his words their full attention. He wants them to understand the danger they are in. They must understand how dangerous it is to tell the non-Jewish believers they must be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. Some Jewish believers told the non-Jewish believers that they must be circumcised to be saved. Paul wants the Galatians to realize how dangerous this thinking is.

`Read Galatians 5:2–12. In these verses, Paul deals with the topic of trying to earn God’s approval by being circumcised. What does Paul warn against?`

Suppose someone tried to be saved by being circumcised. What would be the danger? The first danger would be that this person would need to obey the whole law.

Second, this person would be “cut off” from Christ. Suppose a person chose to be saved by works. Then that person has chosen to reject Christ. “You cannot be saved by works and saved by Christ. To receive Christ means you realize you cannot save yourself. But suppose you were circumcised as a way of being saved after you received Christ. Then that would be another way of saying you could save yourself.”—Adapted, John R. W. Stott, The Message of Galatians (Leicester, England: InterVarsity Press, 1968), page 133.

The third danger of trying to be saved by being circumcised is that it prevents spiritual growth. And last, it goes against the message of the Cross. For it shows that a person thinks he can save himself. But the Cross shows us that we must depend completely on Christ to be saved.

Paul is so angry at the Galatians for saying that new believers must be circumcised to be saved. In fact, he is so angry he wishes the knife would slip and cut off their own sex organs! That is how upset he is. Paul’s strong words show just how serious he is about this problem.