---
title:  Set free from sin
date:   06/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:13_

Galatians 5:13 is an important turning point in the book of Galatians. Up until now, Paul has been concerned with believers having a correct understanding of the gospel. But now he talks about how Christians should behave.

`Read Galatians 5:13. Paul wants to make sure the Galatians do not use their freedom in the wrong way. What does Paul want the Galatians not to do?`

Two of Paul’s teachings include (1) the freedom we have in Christ and (2) grace (Romans 3:8; Romans 6:1, 2). Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. Paul is aware of how easy it is for his message to be misunderstood. But the problem is not caused by Paul’s gospel. The problem is how selfish people are. Without God, humans are self-indulgent. Self-indulgent people allow themselves to have too much of something. Or they do whatever they want in a way that uses more of something than is needed. So, Paul asks the followers of Jesus to avoid giving in to sin so that they might escape this trap of becoming self-indulgent. Instead, Paul wants them to “serve one another in love” (Galatians 5:13, NIrV).

Our freedom in Christ means more than being set free from slavery to the world. It is also the “opportunity to love one’s neighbor without allowing anything to stand in the way of that love. This service involves creating communities based on giving instead of getting power.”—Adapted, Sam K. Williams, Galatians (Nashville, TN: Abingdon Press, 1997), page 145.

The Greek language that Paul uses shows that the love that causes us to serve others in this way is not human love. Paul uses the word “the” before the word “love” in the Greek. This wording shows that Paul means “the” divine love we receive only through the Spirit (Romans 5:5). The real surprise comes from learning that the word translated as “serve” is the Greek word for “to be made a slave.” So, this wording shows that our freedom is not given to us so that we may be self-indulgent. Instead, we are “enslaved” in service to one another. This service is based on God’s love.

`How does our freedom in Christ set us free from slavery to the world? Why was our freedom given to us?`