---
title:  Obeying the whole Law
date:   07/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:3_

`In his letter, Paul speaks against “obey[ing] the whole law” (Galatians 5:3, NIrV). But later in that same chapter, he says the “whole law is fulfilled [its requirements are met] by obeying” one command (Galatians 5:14, NIrV). At first, these two verses may seem to disagree. But how do these verses agree with each other, instead?`

These two verses really do agree. Paul uses the wording of each verse to show the two different ways of thinking, at that time, about the relationship of Christians to the law. For example, Paul talks in a positive way about Christians who obey the law. But he never describes them as doing the law. He uses that wording to describe people who try to earn God’s approval by doing what the law commands.

Now, Paul does not mean to say that those who are saved in Christ do not obey. Nothing could be further from the truth. Paul says Christians “fulfill [meet all the requirements of]” the law. He means that true Christian living is much more than just “doing” the law. Paul uses the word “fulfill” because it goes far beyond just doing. This kind of obedience begins in Jesus. (Read Matthew 5:17.) It does not mean tossing out the law. Nor does it mean reducing the law to just love. Instead, such obedience is the way the believer experiences the true meaning and purpose of the whole law.

`Read Romans 13:9. According to Paul, where is the full meaning of the law found? (Read also Leviticus 19:18; Mark 12:31, 33; Matthew 19:19; and James 2:8.)`

Paul quotes from Leviticus 19:18 in Galatians 5:13–15. His words are based on Jesus’ use of Leviticus 19:18. But Jesus was not the only Jewish teacher to claim that Leviticus 19:18 told what the whole law was about in a few words. For example, Rabbi Hillel said, “Suppose something is hateful to you. Then do not do that to your neighbor. That is the whole law.”—Adapted. But Jesus’ thinking is very different (Matthew 7:12). It is more positive. And it also shows that law and love are not opposites. Without love, the law is empty and cold. Without the law, love has nothing to guide it.

`Is it easier to love others or to obey the Ten Commandments? Why? Bring your answer to class.`