---
title:  Additional thought
date:   08/09/2017
---

“True faith always works by love. . . . This faith will work to make your soul pure from selfishness. We must lay hold of Christ by faith. Then our work will begin. Every person has evil and sinful habits. These must be overcome by strong battles. Every soul must fight the fight of faith. A follower of Christ cannot be dishonest in his business. He cannot be hardhearted. He cannot have a cold heart that feels no pity for others. He cannot be rude and rough in his speech. He cannot be full of pride and self-love. He cannot lord it over others. Nor can he use unkind words to criticize or put others down.

“The work of love comes from the work of faith. Bible religion means we never stop working for God or the good of others. ‘Let your light shine so others can see it. Then they will see the good things you do. And they will bring glory to your Father who is in heaven’ [Matthew 5:16, NIrV]. ‘Continue to work out your own salvation. Do it with fear and trembling. God is working in you. He wants your plans and your acts to help His good purpose come true’ [Philippians 2:12, 13, NIrV]. . . .

“It is true that our good works will not save us. But it is also true that faith will cause the soul connected to Christ to work for Him.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 1111.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. As a class, go over your answer to the last question from Thursday’s study. Which choice did people find easier? Why? What truths does your answer give to you about what it means to “fulfill [obey]” the law?`

`2. Paul says faith “works” through love. What does he mean?`

`3. Why is it all too easy to use your freedom in Christ to give in to sin? Suppose someone thinks giving in to sin is OK. What trap is he or she falling into?`

**Summary**: For Paul, freedom includes what Christ has done for us and what He does in us by making us new. We must be careful that our freedom does not make us think we are free to sin or that we can save ourselves. Christ did not set us free to serve ourselves. He set us free so we might give our lives in service to people in need.