---
title:  Jesus Joins Our Hearts as One in Worship
date:   08/12/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Revelation 4:8, 11; Matthew 4:8, 9; Daniel 3:8–18; Revelation 14:9–11; Revelation 14:6, 7; Acts 2:42; Acts 4:23–31

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “I saw another angel flying in the heavens. He was carrying the Good News that lasts [continues] forever. He was preaching to every nation and to every family group and to the people of every language and to all the people of [on] the earth. He said with a loud voice, ‘Honor God with love and fear [respect].The time has come for Him to judge all men [people]. Worship Him Who made heaven and earth and the sea and the places where water comes out of the earth’ ” (Revelation 14:6, 7, NLV).

GOD POURED HIS SPIRIT ON THE CHURCH (Acts 2:1–4). Then the church members spent much of their time worshiping God (Acts 2:42). The church felt joy from knowing that Jesus was their Savior. What a gift it was for them to know God’s wonderful truth! These first Christians felt the need to spend time with each other in friendship, Bible study, and prayer. They thanked God for giving them the truth about Jesus’ life, death, and His waking up from the dead. They thanked God for everything He did in their lives.

Jesus’ church is a community that worships God. God chose the church to be a “house for worship. There you will be holy priests [religious leaders].You will offer spiritual sacrifices [gifts]. God will accept them [your gifts] because of what Jesus Christ has done” (1 Peter 2:5, NIrV). This week we study worship. We will learn how our worshiping with each other helps us to have peace and be in agreement.
