---
title:  Let Us Worship Our God Who Made Us and Saves Us
date:   09/12/2018
---

When we talk about worship, we often talk about what worship is and how it is done. But what does worship really mean? What does it mean to worship God? Why do we worship? In Psalm 29:2, David says: “Praise the Lord and honor his name! Worship the Lord in all his holy beauty” (Psalm 29:2, ERV). This psalm helps us to start to understand what worship means. To worship the Lord, we must give Him the praise and the honor that He should have.

`Revelation 4 and 5 tell us about what happens in heaven when Jesus goes there after He wakes up from the dead. These chapters tell us that the people who live in heaven worship God and Jesus, who is God’s Lamb. What reasons does everyone in heaven give us for their worshiping God and Jesus? For more hints, read also Revelation 4:8, 11 and Revelation 5:9, 10, 12, and 13.`

Revelation 4 and 5 show us what happens in the throne room of heaven. Jesus is worshiped as the Lamb of God and the Savior for all humans. Worship happens when humans show God their love and thankfulness for every- thing He does for them. Worship happens when we thank God for making us and for saving us. At the end of time, the people that Jesus saves will have grateful hearts that will praise Him for saving them (Revelation 15:3, 4).

So, worship is our giving thanks to God for everything He does for us: first, for making us, and second, for saving us. When we worship God, we give to God the praise, love, and obedience that belong to Him. Of course, the Bible shows us how God made us and saves us. Jesus came to this earth to show us more about God (read John 14:8–14). That is why Christians worship Jesus as the One who made them and saves them. Jesus’ death and waking up from the dead are at the center of our worship.
When we Christians join in worship, we join together because we are filled with respect and thankfulness to God. Our worship of God should always start from these thoughts and feelings of respect and thankfulness.

`Think about all that God gave us when He gave us Jesus. Jesus made us and saves us from sin. Why should these truths be the reason for all of our worship?`
