---
title:  False Worship
date:   10/12/2018
---

`Matthew 4:8, 9 talks about Jesus’ experience with the devil in the wilderness.The devil tries to get Jesus to sin three times. What is the third sin that the devil tries to get Jesus to do?`

Satan’s heart was full of pride. He told Jesus that he was the real ruler of this earth and owned all its glory and riches. Satan said he alone was worthy of praise and respect from everyone on the earth. Satan behaved as if he made the earth. Satan’s words were an insult to God! Satan showed that he knew exactly what worship means: it means we must show honor and respect to God. God is the real owner of heaven and earth. God made the earth, not Satan.

`Read the story about the three Hebrew friends in Daniel 3 (pay special attention to verses 8–18). Now read about the end-time power that Revelation 13:4 and Revelation 14:9–11 talk about. In Revelation 13 and 14, what is the disagreement about? What is the most important idea in the stories from Daniel and Revelation?`

In Bible stories, Satan tries to move us away from our worship of God to false worship. We see Satan try to do that in the story of Cain and Abel, and again in the story of the three Hebrew boys in Babylon. Satan will try to do the same thing again at the end time (Revelation 16:2). Satan’s false worship plan always tries to get people to worship him instead of God. Before Adam and Eve sinned, Satan wanted to be the same as God (Isaiah 14:14). Satan has not changed. The same thing that happened to the three young Hebrew men will happen in the end time to God’s loyal people. They will be told that they will be put to death if they will not worship a false god.

“We have important lessons to learn from the story of the Hebrew young men on the plain of Dura. . . .

“An awful time of trouble lies ahead of God’s people. During that time, we will need to have a strong faith that will not break. God’s children must make it clear that they worship only God. They must show everyone that nothing will cause them to join other people in false worship. Not even the wish to save their own lives.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [special messengers] and Kings, pages 512, 513, adapted.
