---
title:  The First Angel's Message
date:   11/12/2018
---

Seventh-day Adventists believe that the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14:6–12 show them the work that God gave them to do in the end time. In Revelation 14:14–20, we can find the messages that God gave Seventh-day Adventists to share with people before Jesus comes back. God commands Seventh-day Adventists to preach these important messages with power to everyone who lives on the earth.

`Revelation 14:6, 7 tells us the First Angel’s Message. What is this message? What does this message tell us about God? Why does this message talk about worship?`

The First Angel’s Message is for everyone on the earth (read also Matthew 24:14). We get the feeling that the “angel” must act and work fast. The first message tells people to fill their minds with God because “ ‘the time has come for God to judge all people’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). God must judge His people first before Jesus can come back.

“ ‘Honor God with love and fear,’ ” the angel says in Revelation 14:7 (NLV). Many people do not obey God or worship Him. So, this message will make them afraid. But Jesus’ followers will hear this message and feel love and respect for God. Jesus’ followers look up to God. They see that He will do everything He promises to do. Then they will be filled with a deeper feeling of love for God.

“ ‘Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). These words help us remember the Sabbath commandment and that God made everything on this earth in seven days (read Exodus 20:8–11). God made the Sabbath to help us remember that His power made everything. The Sabbath also helps us remember that God is the only One who is worthy of our worship and praise.

At the end of time, the big war between God and Satan will be about worship. That is why the First Angel’s Message invites everyone to worship God who made them.

“The big war between God and Satan at the end of time will be about worship. No wonder God sends the First Angel’s Message to warn everyone on the earth to worship God as the One who made them. He is the only one worthy of our worship.” —Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation [secrets made known] of [from or about] Jesus Christ: Commentary [explanation] on the Book of Revelation (Berrien Springs, Mich.: Andrews University Press, 2002), pages 444, 445, adapted.
