---
title:  Bible Study and Friendship
date:   12/12/2018
---

`Acts 2:42 tells us some of the things that the New Testament Christians did when they worshiped together. What were some of those things they did?`
`
“The believers listened to the teaching of the apostles [leaders and teachers]. They shared everything with each other. They ate together and prayed together” (Acts 2:42, ERV). From the time the church first started, worship in the New Testament church always included Bible study. The first Christians studied the Bible to learn more about Jesus’ work as their Savior. The new believers met together all the time to share with each other the blessings God gave them. They encouraged one another in their spiritual walk with God. They learned the holy truths from the Bible. These truths became their message to all the people on the earth.

What do the verses below teach us about how important it is for us to study the Bible with other believers?

`2 Kings 22:8–13`

`Acts 17:10, 11`

`2 Timothy 3:14–17`

“Anywhere God’s people preach the Good News, there will be people who hear it and want to do what is right. God will lead these people to study the Bible carefully. People who hear the truths for the end time should do the same thing the Bereans did. The Bereans studied the Bible every day to see if the message they heard was true. What will happen when people follow the example of the Bereans? Then there will be many more people who are loyal to God’s law than there are now.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 232, adapted.

Our truths join us as one people. Bible study is at the center of our worship of God and our agreement as His people. When we come together to worship, the Bible gives us words from God. These words lead our lives and help us get ready for Jesus’ Second Coming.

`How deep is your knowledge of Bible truth?`
