---
title:  Eating and Praying Together
date:   13/12/2018
---

At times, the New Testament church had problems. But God joined the members as one in their faith in Jesus. They agreed about the work God gave them to do. They believed that God wanted them to share the Good News about Jesus with everyone on earth. God joined them as one people in the truth. The church also showed that they were joined as one in many other ways.

“They ate together and prayed together” (Acts 2:42, ERV). During a meal, a church member blessed the bread and the drink. The bread and the drink helped Christians remember Jesus’ death and resurrection. The resurrection was the time when Jesus woke up from the dead. The believers expected Jesus to come back soon. The first Christians spent their time remembering Jesus’ life and His work. They loved to talk about Him with each other at their meals. The meals they shared became part of their worship time. “Day after day they went to the house of God together. In their houses they ate their food together. Their hearts were happy” (Acts 2:46, NLV). “The believers praised God and were respected by all the people. More and more people were being saved every day, and the Lord was adding them to their group” (Acts 2:47, ERV). No doubt this time of friendship helped the church to grow stronger.

What examples of Christians praying together do we find in the book of Acts? What did they pray for?

`Acts 1:14`

`Acts 4:23–31`

`Acts 12:12`

The church members in New Testament times loved to talk to God. They never failed to ask Him for what they needed when they got together to worship. In Paul’s First Letter to Timothy, Paul tells him that it is very important for Christians to pray when they get together (1 Timothy 2:1). In his letter to the Ephesians, Paul also talked about the need for prayer (Ephesians 6:18, 19).

`How can our praying together for people help us join more closely with each other in the church?`
