---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   14/12/2018
---

Read the articles “Prayer,” pages 1044–1046, and “Worship,” pages 1290, 1291, in The Ellen G . White Encyclopedia.

“The Sabbath is important. God made the Sabbath to help us remember that He made heaven and earth. The Sabbath always helps us to remember the real reason why God is worthy of our worship: because God made us, and we are His. The Sabbath is a very important part of our worship of God. The Sabbath teaches us the truth about why we worship God. We worship God because He is different from all the things that He made. This truth is at the center of all our worship. We must never forget this truth.”—J. N. Andrews, History of the Sabbath, chapter 27, adapted.

“God always wanted humans to remember that He made them. So, He made the Sabbath in Eden. God made us. That is the reason why we should worship God. The Sabbath always will help us remember this truth. When we keep the Sabbath, we worship God with our hearts and minds. We show our love and respect for Him. . . . Our keeping the Sabbath shows everyone that we are loyal to the true God. God is the one that made heaven, earth, and sea and all the waters on the earth. The [First Angel’s Message] commands humans to worship God and obey His commandments. This same message commands peo- ple to keep the fourth commandment too.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 437, 438, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1 How can the Sabbath become God’s “medicine” to help heal us from false worship? What part does the Sabbath have in the end times? How does Revelation 14:6, 7 help us answer that question? Why does the First Angel’s Message talk about the Sabbath?`

`2 Many times we talk about the things we do and do not do during worship. Is there more to worship than this list of what we can do and cannot do? What does worship mean? What is it really for? How does your church worship?`

`3 In some countries, Christians no longer meet together to worship. What can your church do to help encourage members to meet together in worship?`
