---
title:  "The First Angel’s Message: Part 2"
date:  05/03/2019
---

Revelation shows that the central issues in the last crisis of earth’s history will be worship and obedience to God, as revealed in keeping His commandments (Rev. 14:12). The people of the world will fall into two groups: those who fear and worship God, and those who fear and worship the beast.

`Review the first four commandments of the Decalogue (Exod. 20:2–11). Then go through Revelation 13. How does the beast’s demand for worship (Rev. 13:15), the setting up of an image to the beast to be worshiped (Rev. 13:14, 15), blasphemy of God and His name (Rev. 13:5, 6), and receiving of the mark of the beast (Rev. 13:16, 17) point to Satan’s attacks on the first four commandments of the Decalogue in the final crisis?`

The central concept of the first four commandments of the Decalogue is worship. Revelation indicates that these commandments will become the standard of loyalty to God in the final crisis. The final conflict between Christ and Satan plainly will revolve around worship and the first four commandments.

The key issue in the final crisis is emphasized in the second exhortation of the first angel’s message. The call to “ ‘worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water’ ” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV) is almost an exact quotation of the fourth commandment of the Decalogue (Exod. 20:11). This fact shows that the call to worship God the Creator is a call to Sabbath observance.

Rest and worship on the seventh day—Saturday—is a special sign of our relationship with God (Exod. 31:13, Ezek. 20:12). The first angel’s message is a call to worship the Creator.

“While the observance of the false sabbath in compliance with the law of the state, contrary to the fourth commandment, will be an avowal of allegiance to a power that is in opposition to God, the keeping of the true Sabbath, in obedience to God’s law, is an evidence of loyalty to the Creator. While one class, by accepting the sign of submission to earthly powers, receive the mark of the beast, the other choosing the token of allegiance to divine authority, receive the seal of God.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 605.

`How is our view of Creation and Salvation related? Why is resting on the Sabbath as God did so important?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters” (Revelation 14:6, 7).  

This message, if heeded, will call the attention of every nation and kindred and tongue and people to a close examination of the Word, and to the true light in regard to the power that has changed the seventh-day Sabbath to a spurious sabbath. The only true God has been forsaken, His law has been discarded, His sacred Sabbath institution has been trampled in the dust by the man of sin. The fourth commandment, so plain and explicit, has been ignored. The Sabbath memorial, declaring who the living God is, the Creator of the heavens and the earth, has been torn down, and a spurious sabbath has been given to the world in its place. Thus a breach has been made in the law of God. A false sabbath could not be a true standard.—_Selected Messages_, book 2, p. 105.

The first four commandments enjoined upon man his duty to serve the Lord our God with all the heart, and with all the soul, and with all the mind, and with all the strength. This takes the whole man. This requires a love so fervent, so intense, that man can cherish nothing in his mind or affections in rivalry with God. . . . 

Jehovah, the eternal, self-existent, uncreated One, Himself the source and sustainer of all, is alone entitled to supreme reverence and worship. Man is forbidden to give to any other object the first place in his affections or his service. Whatever we cherish that tends to lessen our love for God or to interfere with the service due Him, of that do we make a god.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 56.

Our God is a tender, merciful Father. His service should not be looked upon as a heart-saddening, distressing exercise. It should be a pleasure to worship the Lord and to take part in His work. God would not have His children, for whom so great salvation has been provided, act as if He were a hard, exacting taskmaster. He is their best friend; and when they worship Him, He expects to be with them, to bless and comfort them, filling their hearts with joy and love. The Lord desires His children to take comfort in His service and to find more pleasure than hardship in His work. He desires that those who come to worship Him shall carry away with them precious thoughts of His care and love, that they may be cheered in all the employments of daily life, that they may have grace to deal honestly and faithfully in all things.—_Steps to Christ_, p. 103. 