---
title:  The “Change” of the Law
date:   05/05/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Rom. 8:1; 7:15-25; Rom. 7:1-14; John 20:19-23; Acts 20:6, 7; Dan. 7:23-25; Rev. 13:1-17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “He will speak against the Most High and oppress his holy people and try to change the set times and the laws. The holy people will be delivered into his hands for a time, times and half a time” (Daniel 7:25, NIV).

Central to our understanding of last-day events is the question of the law of God. More specifically, it is the question of the fourth commandment, the seventh-day Sabbath. Though we understand that salvation is by faith alone and that keeping the law, including the Sabbath, can never bring salvation, we also understand that in the last days, obedience to God’s law, including the seventh-day Sabbath, will be an outward sign, a mark, of where our true allegiance lies.

This distinction will become especially obvious amid the climactic end-time events depicted in Revelation 13 and 14, when an all-powerful conglomeration of religious and political forces will unite to enforce a false form of worship upon the inhabitants of the world. All this is in contrast to Revelation 14:7, where God’s people are called to “worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (NKJV) ; that is, to worship only the Creator and no one else.

This week we will look at the law of God, especially the Sabbath, and will touch on issues surrounding the attempted change of that law and what it means for us, upon whom the end is soon to come.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 12.*
