---
title:  Further Thought
date:   11/05/2018
---

The same dragon, Satan, who made war against God in heaven (Rev. 12:7) is the one who makes war with God’s people on earth, those who “keep the commandments of God” (Rev. 12:17; see also 13:2, 4). In fact, Satan himself becomes an object of worship, too (Rev. 13:4). So the war against God, which Satan started in heaven, he seeks to continue on earth. And central to his attack on God is his attack on God’s law.

“In the fourth commandment, God is revealed as the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and is thereby distinguished from all false gods. It was as a memorial of the work of creation that the seventh day was sanctified as a rest day for man. It was designed to keep the living God ever before the minds of men as the source of being and the object of reverence and worship. Satan strives to turn men from their allegiance to God, and from rendering obedience to His law; therefore he directs his efforts especially against that commandment which points to God as the Creator”. — Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 53, 54.

We worship the Lord because He is the Creator of “the heavens and the earth”, and the seventh-day Sabbath is the foundational sign of His creatorship, a sign that goes back to the Creation week itself (see Gen. 2:1-3). No wonder that in his attack on God’s authority, Satan goes after the premier, fundamental sign of that authority: the seventh-day Sabbath.

In the last days, God will have upon the earth people who will stay firm and steadfast in their allegiance to Him, an allegiance manifested in their obedience to His commandments — all of them, including the only one that specifically points to the Lord as the Creator, who alone is worthy of our worship.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. What is the problem with those who talk about the reality of sin and yet argue that God’s law has been done away with? What great inconsistency can you point out in that line of reasoning?`

`2. What has been your own experience with those who argue for Sunday instead of Sabbath? What arguments did you use, and how effective were they? How can you deal with the common argument that keeping the seventh-day Sabbath is an attempt at salvation by works?`

`3. As we talk to others about the Sabbath and as we prepare for end-time events, why is it important to make it clear that the challenges regarding the “mark of the beast” have not yet happened?`
