---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/08/2021
---

“With the continual change of circumstances, changes come in our experience; and by these changes we are either elated or depressed. But the change of circumstances has no power to change God’s relation to us. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever; and He asks us to have unquestioning confidence in His love.”—Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, p. 120.

“Keep looking unto Jesus, offering up silent prayers in faith, taking hold of His strength, whether you have any manifest feeling or not. Go right forward as if every prayer offered was lodged in the throne of God and responded to by the One whose promises never fail. Go right along, singing and making melody to God in your hearts, even when depressed by a sense of weight and sadness. I tell you as one who knows, light will come, joy will be ours, and the mists and clouds will be rolled back. And we pass from the oppressive power of the shadow and darkness into the clear sunshine of His presence.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, pp. 242, 243.

**Discussion Questions**:

`It is often very difficult to help someone suffering from mental disorders or depression. What would be a good strategy for your church to learn how to minister more effectively to those affected by depression?`

`We often struggle to be open and honest before God. Scan through some psalms and see how open and honest the biblical authors were before God. How can we foster an atmosphere of openness and honesty in our local congregation?`

`Prayer is often difficult when we face depression. Discuss the power of intercessory prayer for those who cannot pray for themselves.`

`Why is it so important that we remember that faith is not feeling? Just because we are depressed, discouraged, fearful, and worried doesn’t mean we lack faith or trust in God. It means only that, for the moment, we are depressed, discouraged, fearful, and worried, as all of us have been at some point or another. How can we learn that, at times like this, reaching out in faith is so crucial, no matter how difficult it may seem?`

`What great hope can you take from the story of the paralytic, especially if a sinful lifestyle has brought disease and sickness upon you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We apologize that the daily quotes by Ellen White are temporarily unavailable. We are working toward providing supplemental quotations again in the very near future!