---
title: 'A Young Leader'
date: 05/10/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Exodus 17:8–16

**A Young Leader**

In today's world of instant celebrity status and overnight success stories Joshua offers a powerful counter-narrative about careful, diligent, leadership development. The book of Joshua opens with the Israelites camped on the borders of Canaan, ready to receive the land God promised to give to Abraham’s family. All the events in the nation’s history pointed toward this critical moment, when the Israelites would conquer the inhabitants of Canaan and finally occupy the land God was giving them.

The responsibility of leading the children of Israel rested on a man named Joshua. The Israelites knew him well. For the past forty years, Joshua had been Moses’ closest assistant. He alone had the privilege of accompanying Moses on Mount Sinai when God gave instructions on how to build the tabernacle and conduct its services (Exod. 24:13). No one else had the same close-up view of the responsibilities Moses carried. Throughout the years of wandering in the wilderness, Joshua saw it all. He experienced the ups and downs of leadership with all its challenges, disappointments, victories, and surprises. Within months of leaving Egypt, even while Moses was still a new leader himself, his successor was already being prepared. Joshua was mentored and discipled by Moses for forty years before God called him to be the leader of Israel. The story of Joshua reminds us that wise leaders take time to train people to take their places. Today, we need pastors, elders, and leaders of all kinds who will invest in mentoring the next generation just as Moses did with Joshua.

The first time Joshua appears in the biblical narrative is in a moment of crisis, not long after the Israelites left Egypt and crossed the Red Sea. As they trudged through the desert, the most tired and vulnerable people in the procession fell to the rear. Without warning, Amalekites ambushed these Israelites (Deut. 25:18). God instructed Moses that Joshua should lead the Israelites into their first battle. The conflict was long and fierce, but Joshua proved himself a faithful man of action in defending Israel against the aggression of the Amalekites.

Joshua also proved himself to be more than just a warrior. He was a man of deep faith and devotion. While still a young man, at an age when many yearn for action, Joshua was content to remain at the tabernacle, waiting on Moses and assisting however needed (Exod. 33:11). Joshua was adaptable, able to step up and fight the toughest battles but also able to serve in a quiet sanctuary as Moses’ humble servant. Joshua’s faithfulness with little responsibilities gained Moses’ trust in Joshua for larger responsibilities. God needs leaders who do not wait for something big, but will do the small things with excellence (Luke 16:10).

The real strength of Joshua’s character was revealed when the Israelite camp moved to Kadesh Barnea and Moses sent Joshua with eleven other men to spy out the land of Canaan. After returning from their mission, ten of the spies convinced the congregation that the land of Canaan was impossible for them to conquer. They concluded that they would’ve been better off staying in Egypt or dying in the wilderness! Against the strongest pressure from his peers, Joshua, along with Caleb, maintained that God could easily deliver Canaan into their hands. Joshua’s faith and loyalty to God was unwavering. The Bible says that Joshua and Caleb “wholly followed the LORD” (Num. 32:12) despite complete rebellion in the camp. Joshua’s ultimate allegiance was to God, and he was not afraid to stand apart from the crowd when the majority were going the wrong way.

All throughout the subsequent forty years of wandering in the wilderness, God prepared Joshua for the mantle of leadership he would one day shoulder. At every step, Joshua demonstrated implicit, unquestioning faith in God’s ability to keep His promises. Joshua didn’t spring up as a fully formed leader overnight. He was a man whom God forged in the crucible of disappointed hopes, extreme waiting, and formidable trials. He was a man who overcame because he held fast to his faith in God’s sovereignty.

### inScribe

_Write out Exodus 17:8–16 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or make an outline of the story._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `