---
title: 'An Able Leader'
date: 06/10/2025
---

### inGest

When the Israelites experienced a surprise attack from the Amalekites, Moses acted quickly. He called Joshua to muster a band of soldiers and lead the charge against their enemies. The battle was hard, dragging on through the heat of the day. There were moments when Israel quivered on the brink of victory and others when they seemed on the verge of defeat. It was a long day, fraught with blood, sweat, and above all, patient perseverance.

It was during this battle against Amalek that Joshua first proved himself as an able warrior. He demonstrated the characteristics spiritual leaders need for success. He was quick to obey the voice of God without question. Despite the dangers, he was fearless in engaging the enemy. His willingness and courage showed his faith in God.

Joshua, a recently liberated slave, had never led men on a battlefield. He had lived his entire life in subjection to tyrannical overlords, yet he obeyed God’s command and led the charge against Amalek because he believed that God would give him victory. It was that simple. Joshua was victorious because he was brave enough to step out in faith—a faith bolstered by his past experiences with God. He had confidence that the God who had preserved the nation of Israel through the plagues in Egypt still had a purpose for them and would continue to preserve them. He trusted that the God who had parted the Red Sea and drowned the Egyptians would defeat the Amalekites as well. He believed that the God who had called them into the wilderness would conduct them safely through it.

Today, God needs young people like Joshua who will move quickly when danger threatens and not back down in the face of fierce opposition. Often, when we encounter giants in our lives, inadequacy overwhelms us. We know we don’t have sufficient resources to gain a victory. God invites us to look beyond ourselves and to rely on His strength. He invites us to bring our battles, our struggles, our burdens to Him. If we lay them at His feet, He will bear them and grant us victory over them.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`What battles are you facing that God is using to test and strengthen you?`

`What have you learned from the battles you’ve faced in the past?`