---
title: 'Relying on God’s Power'
date: 07/10/2025
---

### inTerpret

While Joshua led the battle against the Amalekites, Moses ascended a nearby hill to pray. With arms lifted toward heaven, Moses interceded on behalf of God’s people, who were a tired group of refugees. Lifting his arms toward heaven symbolized total dependence on God and connection with heaven through prayer. As long as Moses kept his hands raised toward heaven, Joshua and his fighting men advanced toward victory. Every time Moses dropped his arms, the Amalekites gained the advantage (Exod. 17:9–11). Joshua knew he would never win the battle in his own strength. He realized the battle had a supernatural dimension, with invisible forces at work. He knew that Moses’ intercession was as essential as his own action on the battlefield. Joshua was nerved for battle and had confidence that God would bring victory because He knew that Moses was behind him praying. This is a beautiful picture of the kind of cross-generational ministry that we need today. Young people can do amazing things when they are humble and are supported by older people who are praying for them and encouraging them.

As a young man, Joshua developed total confidence in God’s ability to gain the victory. Full reliance on Divine power was the key to Joshua’s success as a leader from that day forward. What made Joshua an outstanding leader was not his training, his brilliant strategies, or his stature or strength; he was an effective leader because of his faith in God. Joshua believed God could and would deliver them from the most formidable enemies.

Sometime later, this unshakable faith in God made Joshua stand with Caleb and not cave to the crowd’s demands when the ten spies returned from Canaan with a discouraging report. Joshua joined Caleb in pleading with the congregation not to rebel against the Lord: “If the LORD delights in us, then He will bring us into this land and give it to us” (Num. 14:8). Joshua’s and Caleb’s faith was not in themselves or their abilities but in God’s power and goodness. They were well aware of the giants in the land and the dangers threatening them. Nevertheless, they appealed to the congregation: “The LORD is with us. Do not fear them” (v. 9). Their steady faith infuriated the unbelievers; their own people would have stoned them to death on the spot had God not appeared on the scene to intervene (v. 10). Joshua’s life shows that spiritual leadership is not always appreciated or accepted. Being a leader can be very lonely. Cultivating a relationship with God is essential for any leader, as He is the only consistent source of support.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you respond to conviction? How do you handle pressure from the crowd?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Exodus 17:8–16. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._