---
title: 'The Captain of Our Salvation'
date: 09/10/2025
---

### inVite

Moses changed the name of his assistant from Hoshea to Joshua (Num. 13:16), a name similar to Jesus’. Joshua’s leadership foreshadowed Jesus’ leadership. Both names mean the same thing: “God is salvation” or “God is deliverance.” Both Joshua and Jesus faced formidable foes who could be conquered only through firm reliance on God. Both were sent to deliver God’s people and set them free.

Joshua defeated the Canaanite armies, and Jesus came to this world to “destroy the works of the devil” (1 John 3:8). While Joshua faced physical giants, Jesus faced mental and emotional giants—perhaps the hardest kind to deal with. In the wilderness, Satan questioned Jesus’ identity (Matt. 4:3), enticed Him to presumption (v. 6), and tempted Him to abandon God’s plans in pursuit of worldly gain (vv. 8, 9). When faced with each of these giants, Jesus responded with three simple words: “It is written.” For every temptation Satan hurled at Him, Jesus defended Himself with the sword of Scripture and the shield of faith. This strategy alone made Him victorious.

The intensity of Jesus’ battles is seen in the sleepless nights when the Captain of our salvation stayed awake praying all night (Luke 6:12). His prayers were not tame, sleepy prayers. Jesus often prayed “with vehement cries and tears” (Heb. 5:7). The most severe struggle against the powers of darkness began in the Garden of Gethsemane, when Jesus said, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death” (Matt. 26:38). Weighed down with the sins of the world, Jesus’ life was slowly being crushed out. Death would have brought welcome relief, but an angel came to strengthen Him to continue His unfinished work (Luke 22:43). “And being in agony, He prayed more earnestly. Then His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground” (v. 44). Jesus’ bloody sweat was a small indication of the intense spiritual battle that unfolded as He delivered His people from the powers of darkness. Every battlefield has blood on the ground to mark the injuries and deaths of the soldiers who fought. The Garden of Gethsemane was no exception; blood spilled on the ground to mark the place Jesus “resisted to bloodshed” (Heb. 12:4).

The stories of Joshua in battle were a small foreshadowing of the much larger battles Jesus would fight. Knowing Jesus as a warrior helps us feel safe with Him. The more we experience victory with Christ, the more confidence we have that He has won the war against evil.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

In what ways do you see Jesus as a conqueror?