---
title: inQuire
date: 11/10/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Joshua’s faithfulness with his first responsibilities:**

1. What were Moses’ and Joshua’s roles in defeating the Amalekites? Why were both essential to gain the victory? _Read Exod. 17:8–16._
2. What were some of the responsibilities and privileges given to Joshua as a young man? _Consider Exod. 24:13; 32:17; 33:11._
3. According to the texts above, in what ways did Joshua show himself faithful with His early responsibilities?
4. What leadership lessons would Joshua have learned as he assisted Moses?

`Personal reflection: How have mundane responsibilities or roles prepared you for greater ones?`

**Joshua goes against the crowd:**

1. Why were Joshua and Caleb willing to go to battle when the other ten spies were certain of defeat? _See Num. 14:1–10._
2. How much did Joshua and Caleb risk when they refused to concede to the crowd demanding they select a new leader and return to Egypt?

`Personal reflection: What are some practical ways you can exercise faith in God amid the challenges you’re facing?`

**Joshua becomes the leader of Israel:**

1. Why did God appoint Joshua to be the next leader of Israel? _See Num. 27:15–23; 32:12; 34:9._
2. In what ways did Joshua’s leadership foreshadow the life and mission of Jesus? _Notice Joshua’s name change in Num. 13:16 and its likeness to Jesus’ name. Consider other parallels from this week’s inVite section._

`Personal reflection: How have people mentored and trained you to carry responsibility? How can you help prepare the next generation?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- Leadership responsibility begins with being faithful in the small things.
- The world and the church need faithful people who will not just go along with the crowd.
- Future leaders need cross-generational mentorship.