---
title:  Paul’s Message and His Right to Lead the Church
date:   01/07/2017
---

#### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Peter 3:15, 16; Galatians 1; Philippians 1:1; Galatians 5:12.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Am I now trying to get people to think well of me? Or do I want God to think well of me? Am I trying to please people? If I were, I would not be serving Christ” (Galatians 1:10, NIrV).

Students built a center at their university where everyone was welcome. Imagine that they returned years later to find other students had changed the center.There was no longer a large room where people could spend time with friends. Instead, the big room was divided into many smaller rooms. Each room had rules about who could enter and who could not. Some rooms allowed people from only one race or sex to enter. The students who changed the design said that they had the power to do so.They argued that keeping people separated was how things always had been done in the past.

Paul faced a real situation like this imaginary one when he wrote to the Galatians. He told them his plan for the Gentiles. Gentiles are people who are not Jews. Paul argued that Gentiles could join the church by faith alone. But false teachers fought against Paul. They insisted Gentiles first had to be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. Then the Gentiles could join the church.

Paul saw that this teaching attacked the heart of the gospel itself. The gospel teaches that we are saved through faith alone in Jesus. So Paul fought against this attack. And his fight took the form of a letter to the Galatians.