---
title:  Paul, the letter writer
date:   02/07/2017
---

_2 Peter 3:15, 16_

`Read 2 Peter 3:15, 16. What does the church in Paul’s day think of his writings? What do these verses teach us about how the Holy Spirit led men to write the Bible?`

Paul is not trying to make a work of art when he writes his letter to the Galatians. Instead, the Holy Spirit leads Paul to write about situations that involve him and the believers in the churches in Galatia.

Letters were an important part of Paul’s work for God. So, Paul wrote letters to the many churches he started along the Mediterranean. He visited these churches whenever he could. But he could not stay in one place for too long. So his letters guided the churches while he was gone. Over time, copies of Paul’s letters were shared with other churches (Colossians 4:16). Some of Paul’s letters have been lost. But he wrote at least 13 books of the Bible. The verses from Peter we read earlier show that, at some point, Paul’s writings were viewed as part of the Holy Bible. The honor given to Paul’s writings shows just how much respect his work for God gained in the early history of the church.

There was a time when some believed that the form in which Paul wrote his letters was very rare and special.They thought the Holy Spirit created it just to contain God’s messages. But this view changed when two young men from Oxford made an important discovery in Egypt. The young men were Bernard Grenfell and Arthur Hunt. They found about 500,000 pieces of very old documents, written on papyrus. Papyrus is a tall plant that is like grass. It grows along marshes. It was used to make paper in Bible times. Among the papyrus documents the young men found were very old copies of the New Testament.They also found bills, tax returns, receipts for payment, and personal letters.

Their discovery proved that Paul’s form of letter writing was used for all letters in his day. These letters included four parts: (1) a greeting that named the writer and those receiving the letter, (2) a word of thanksgiving, (3) the main body of the letter, and (4) the closing thoughts.

So, Paul was following the form of letter writing used in his time. He spoke to people in his day in a form that would be easy for them to recognize.

`Suppose the Bible were written today. What form of writing might the Lord use to reach us now?`