---
title:  No other Gospel
date:   05/07/2017
---

_Galatians 1:6–9_

`Notice how Paul begins some of his letters. For example, look at Romans 1:8; 1 Corinthians 1:4; Philippians 1:3; and 1 Thessalonians 1:2. What often comes after the opening greeting? And how is Galatians 1:6 different?`

Paul writes about all kinds of problems that the churches face. But first he begins his letters with a greeting. Then he gives a prayer of thanks to God for the faith of his readers. Paul writes his letter to the Corinthians in this way. The Corinthians struggled against the desire to do all kinds of sinful things. (For example, read 1 Corinthians 1:4 and 1 Corinthians 5:1.) But the situation in Galatia upsets Paul. So he leaves out his usual words of thanks to God. And instead he gets right to the point.

`Read Galatians 1:6–9 and Galatians 5:12. What strong words does Paul use to show how worried he is about what is happening in Galatia?`

Paul does not hold back any words in his letter to the Galatians. He accuses them of turning against their beliefs as Christians. In fact, the word “turning” (Galatians 1:6, NIrV) often was used to describe soldiers who turned against their country by running away from the army. So, Paul says the Galatians are turning away from God in the same way.

How are the Galatians turning away from God? Paul says they have turned to a different gospel. Paul does not mean that there is more than one gospel. What he means is there are false teachers in the church. They teach that faith in Christ alone is not enough to save from sin (Acts 15:1–5). Paul is so upset by this false teaching. He hopes that anyone who preaches such a different gospel will fall under the curse of God (Galatians 1:8)! He even says it twice to show just how upset he is (Galatians 1:9).

`Even in today’s church, we seem to teach that what we do is more important than what we believe. Some say the most important thing is our relationship or experience with God. It is true that experience is important. But what does Paul’s writing here in Galatians teach us about how important the correct beliefs are too?`