---
title:  The source of Paul’s Gospel
date:   06/07/2017
---

_Galatians 1:11–24_

`Read Galatians 1:6–9, 11–24. The troublemakers in Galatia accuse Paul of writing his gospel to win the praise of others. Suppose Paul wanted others to think well of him. Then what different things might he have said in his letters to get people to praise him?`

Why does Paul say that Gentile believers do not need to be circumcised? Paul’s enemies say it is because Paul wanted to bring as many people into the church as possible. They accuse Paul of caring more about numbers in the church than about the truth. Paul knew that Gentiles might not want to be circumcised. So Paul’s enemies may have thought that was the reason Paul did not require the Gentiles to be circumcised. As a result, Paul is accused of being a people pleaser! Paul answers by pointing his attackers to his strong words in Galatians 1:8, 9. These verses clearly show that Paul’s purpose is not to get others to think well of him. Suppose Paul wanted that. Then he would have answered in a different way.

`Why does Paul say it is impossible to follow Christ and try to please people at the same time?`

`In Galatians 1:11, 12, Paul says that God gave him his gospel and the power to preach and lead. How do Paul’s words in Galatians 1:23, 24 help make his point?`

The set of verses in Galatians 1:13–24 gives Paul’s life story before he became a Christian. These verses also tell what happened to him when he became a Christian (Galatians 1:15, 16) and after he became one (Galatians 1:16–24). Paul argues that the situations surrounding each of these times in his life show it is impossible to say he received his gospel from anyone but God. Paul refuses to let anyone insult his message by doubting where it came from. Paul knows he was chosen to teach. And he is going to do it even if it is hard to do.

`How sure are you that Christ has chosen you to serve Him? How can you know for sure what God has asked you to do? Suppose you know for sure. Why must you still learn to listen to the wise advice of others?`