---
title:  Why Do Disagreements Happen?
date:   06/10/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Jeremiah 3:12, 13; Judges 17:6; 1 Kings 12:1–16; 1 Corinthians 1:10; Acts 20:25–31. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Wisdom begins with fear and respect for the LORD. Knowledge of [about] the Holy One leads to understanding’ ” (Proverbs 9:10, ERV).

DURING OLD TESTAMENT TIMES, special messengers from God told Israel to obey God’s commands. These messengers warned God’s people about the dangers of not obeying God. What happened when God’s people did not obey? Their disobedience led to disagreement. Disobedience led them away from God. God wanted His people to obey His laws. When God’s people obeyed His laws, then the law kept His people safe from the bad things that happened when they sinned. God wanted His people to obey His laws because He wanted to make them holy. God wanted His people to live holy lives among the other people around them who did not know God. What happened when God’s people followed God’s plan to obey His law? Then they became strong people. They had peace. They turned away from the false worship that was going on all around them. God wanted His people to be holy so they could witness to the people all around them (Deuteronomy 4:5, 6). 

Yes, God wanted His people to stay loyal to Him. God promised to bless them in a big way if they obeyed Him. He also wanted His people to bless other people, just as He blessed His own people. But God’s people chose to disobey Him. Their disobedience led to many problems. One of those problems was disagreement.