---
title:  Come back to God!
date:   07/10/2018
---

The history of God’s people, Israel, is filled with stories about how they do not obey God. There are also many stories in the Bible about how Israel turns back to God only to turn away from Him again. Israel does this same thing again and again. When God’s people obey God’s plan, they enjoy peace and life. But when God’s people disobey God and do what they want, then wars and disagreements fill their lives. God knows Israel will not obey Him. So, He gives His people a special plan to help them avoid doing evil and the bad things that happen when they sin.

`Read Deuteronomy 28:1–14. What good things does God promise to give His people if they obey Him?`

`In Jeremiah 3:14–18, God asks Israel to turn away from sin and come back to Him. What do these verses tell us about God’s love? How patient is God with His people?`

The book of Jeremiah shows us something very wonderful about God. It shows us how much love, forgiveness, and mercy God has in His heart for His people. God’s people break His law. They fight each other. They worship false gods. But God never stops inviting His people to turn away from their sins and come back to Him. God promises to give His people new lives. He continues to promise them a better future if they will come back to Him (Jeremiah 3:12, 13).

Jeremiah 3:12, 13 is God’s special message to His people. God gave it to Jeremiah to give to Israel. Jeremiah gave this message to God’s people at a time when they did not obey God’s law. It is true that King Josiah started making changes for the better when he ruled. But after that time, most people did not stay loyal to God or obey His laws. Sins, selfish hearts, and idol worship destroyed the lives of God’s people. The more the people disobeyed God, the more they suffered. God sent Jeremiah to beg His people to turn back to Him. God had a better future planned for His people. He wanted to bless His people with peace, good health, and long life. God wanted so much to give these gifts to His people. But first, His people needed to promise to live by faith and obey Him.

`How has your own experience taught you that it is better to obey God than to disobey Him?`