---
title:  “The people did anything they thought was right”
date:   08/10/2018
---

The book of Judges tells us about the bad things that happened when Israel did not obey God. Soon after Israel started living in Canaan, they began to worship idols and to follow the false religions of the people around them. God warned Israel not to do these things. But as we shall see, these problems were not Israel’s only troubles. 

`Read about the other problems that Israel had in Judges 17:6 and Judges 21:25. What were these new problems? How did these new problems start? What do they teach us about how problems can start among God’s people?`

These verses teach us what happens when everyone does whatever they want. There will be separation and disagreement among God’s people. His people will enjoy peace and agreement when they are loyal to God and obey Him and His Special Agreement. Another name for God’s Special Agreement with His people is His Covenant. God’s people agreed to the Covenant with God. But then God’s people started doing what they thought was right instead of what God said was right. That led them down the wrong road. We are all sinners. But God does not turn away from us or leave us to decide what is best or right on our own. He shows us the right road to walk on. We cannot find this road without God’s help. As sinners, we will wander away from the right road and go in the wrong direction.

`Judges 2:11–13 and Judges 3:5–7 tell us about the spiritual health of Israel and show us how people behaved in the time of the judges. What do these verses teach us about those times? How spiritual were the people back then?`

“God’s people decided to use God’s gifts for themselves. They did not use them to help other people. They grew greedy and selfish. Then the idol worshipers who lived around them lost all respect for God’s people. God’s own people gave non-Jews a reason to misunderstand God’s love and the laws of His kingdom.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [special messengers] and Kings, pages 20, 21, adapted. 

`What “picture” of God do your actions and words show to the people around you?`