---
title:  The time when the hebrew people split apart
date:   09/10/2018
---

God’s people did not fall off the road to Truth in one night. The bad things that happened to them did not happen quickly either. But God’s people made many wrong choices. Over time, these bad choices led to some awful problems for God’s people.

`Read the story of King Rehoboam in 1 Kings 12:1–16. What caused the awful separation between God’s people?`

“King Rehoboam and his government did not understand God’s plan for Israel. The king’s team of leaders did not have much experience at all. The king’s leaders did not listen to the people. The people met with the leaders at Shechem. The people asked the leaders to make changes to help the people. The leaders had the chance to improve the country. But they failed to understand the real cause for evil or good. Because of that, the leaders grew weak in power. They lost the chance to make the lives of many people better. The leaders did not want to remove the heavy workload off the people that King Solomon put on them. The leaders wanted the people to work harder. The leaders’ plans went fully against God’s plan. The leaders’ decisions made the people think that the leaders did not care about them. The leaders showed that they were not wise. Their behavior showed no love. In this way, the king and his leaders showed that they were proud.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [special messengers] and Kings, page 90, adapted.  

`Proverbs 4:1–9; Proverbs 9:10; and James 1:5 talk about why we need wisdom to make the right decisions. Where does all true wisdom start?`

King Rehoboam made a very bad decision. He chose to force more work on God’s people. The king asked for advice from two groups of leaders. Then he chose to listen to the advice of the young leaders who were his own age. They had no real experience as leaders. These young leaders told Rehoboam to be tough on the people. In the end, Rehoboam showed that he was a bully and did not know how to lead. His decision separated God’s people into two countries. This separation was never God’s plan for Israel. What is worse, it really did not need to happen.