---
title:  Separation in the church at Corinth
date:   10/10/2018
---

As we saw yesterday, disagreement and separation were problems among God’s people during Old Testament times. But these problems happened in New Testament times too.

Here is one example of separation that Paul writes about. In his First Letter to the Corinthians, Paul begs God’s people to get along and to agree with each other about Bible truth. When Paul was in Ephesus, he heard that the church at Corinth broke up into different groups. So, in his letter, Paul starts by talking about the need for getting along and for agreement. He says it is important to stop separation and fights. Paul worries deeply about the division in the church at Corinth. He wants to give the church wise advice to help it solve this awful problem. 

`In 1 Corinthians 1:10 we read about the separation in the church at Corinth. What seems to be the reason for the separation and disagreements among church members?`   

Someone from Chloe’s group told Paul about the problems in the church at Corinth. Paul grew worried about his brothers and sisters there. The first words of Paul’s letter show that his interest in the Corinthian believers is deep and real. Paul’s answer to the problem is to remind the believers that they are to be fully joined together as one group and to be “in complete agreement in all that you think” (1 Corinthians 1:10, NIrV). Paul wanted the reasons for the disagreement and separation to stop. 

Paul tells the Corinthian believers to remember that Jesus asked them to follow Him. They must not follow any human person, not even a person with many talents or special skills. Paul tells them that separating themselves into little groups when they disagree with each other is not God’s plan. Paul tells the Corinthians that real Christian agreement starts with their knowing Jesus and accepting His death for their sins on the cross (1 Corinthians 1:13).  

What does this truth say to us as Seventh-day Adventists? It tells us we must treasure our peace and agreement as precious gifts from God. Separation and disagreement can destroy our peace today. So, we must let God’s love control our hearts.

`How can we avoid the dangers that Paul talks about?`