---
title:  “ ‘Hungry wolves will come’ ”
date:   11/10/2018
---

`In Acts 20:25–31, Paul warns the Ephesian church leaders about the danger that will come in the future. What danger does Paul warn them about? What does Paul say the leaders must do to stop the problem from happening?`

In his work for God, Paul often meets people who work against him. So, Paul knows how important it is to protect the truths about Jesus’ Good News. When Paul preaches his goodbye sermon to the Ephesian leaders, Paul uses the picture story about the watchman in Ezekiel 33:1–6. This picture clearly shows the Ephesian leaders that they were responsible for protecting the Good News. The leaders must be loyal “shepherds” who watch over their “flocks.” 

Paul uses the words “ ‘hungry wolves’ ” (Acts 20:29, NLV) or “wild wolves” (NIrV) to describe false teachers. Paul’s words remind us of Jesus’ warning about false teachers. Jesus warns that false teachers will come “ ‘pretending to be sheep’ ” (Matthew 7:15, NIrV). They will “ ‘look gentle like [the same as] sheep’ ” (ERV). “ ‘But on the inside they are hungry wolves’ ” (NIrV). Sure enough, these false teachers came into the church soon after Paul warned the Ephesian leaders about them. The false teachers hurt the minds and hearts of believers in the Asian churches Paul started. In Ephesians 5:6–14 and Colossians 2:8, we find Paul’s warnings to the churches in Asia Minor. Asia Minor is part of modern Turkey today.

`In 2 Timothy 2:14–19 and 2 Timothy 3:12–17, Paul tells Timothy what to do about false teachers. What advice does Paul give Timothy about how to protect the church?`

First, Paul says it is important to know Bible truth (2 Timothy 2:15). The truth will stop foolish disagreements and false ideas. So, believers must understand correctly Bible truth and teach it to other people. Problems and ideas that do not matter must not be made more important than Bible truth. Only Bible truth will help believers win the fight against sin. Second, Paul tells Timothy to “stay away from people who talk about useless things that are not from God” (2 Timothy 2:16, ERV). Truth alone leads to peace and makes us holy. 

`How can we protect our church against false teachings?`