---
title:  Additional thought
date:   12/10/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Rending [splitting apart] of the Kingdom,” pages 87–98, in Prophets [special messengers] and Kings; “A Message of [about] Warning and Entreaty [asking for something],” pages 298–308, in The Acts of the Apostles [leaders]. 

“The Lord wants His servants to learn how to work together. But some people may think that their skills and the skills of other people are not the same. They think this difference will make it impossible to work together. But they must remember that the people they try to reach with the truth have different minds too. Some people will turn away from the truth that one of God’s servants shares with them. But these same people will accept the truth when it is shared with them by someone else. So, let that thought help God’s people to work together as one. Their different skills can all be under the control of the same Spirit. Then God’s workers will show love and a kind spirit in every word and act to everyone. Each worker must do the work God gives him. Then the prayer of Jesus for His followers to join as one will be answered. People everywhere will know that these workers are Jesus’ followers.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel [about the Good News] Workers, page 483, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Today, many thinkers do not accept the idea that God’s law can decide what is right or wrong for everyone on earth. Why is this thinking so dangerous? How does it lead to the confusion and wild behavior that the Bible warns about?`

`2.	Think some more about King Rehoboam’s story and how God’s people were separated (1 Kings 12). What lessons does this story teach us today?`  

`3.	How can church leaders and members stop disagreement in the church? Why is it important to stop these problems before they grow worse? How can we as church members take care not to fall into the same trap that some members in Corinth fell into?`

`4.	Proverbs 6:16–19 talks about how to prevent disagreements. What does it tell us to do to stop disagreements from happening in the local church?`