---
title:  “God Was Taking My Picture!”
date:   06/06/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Mark 4:35—5:43

One evening, as the sun dipped below the horizon, a young girl was walking home when a dark storm blew in. Being still some distance from home, she quickened her pace. A lone raindrop fell on her cheek, then another, and, before she knew it, she was drenched. She started to run. Her father rushed to meet her as she flung open the door of her home. As he wrapped a blanket around her shoulders, he asked her, “I saw you just now, in the rain. Why, with every bolt of lightning, did you stop running to look up and smile?”

“Oh, I stopped to look up,” she said, “because God was taking my picture!”

What is our response when the storms of life come or when we have certain setbacks in our relationship with God? Do we put our heads down as the rain pelts upon our backs, or do we look up, knowing and trusting that God is there as we turn our faces toward Him?

We live in a sinful world full of pain and suffering, and each of us faces hardships at times, experiences that can cause us to question God’s love. Maybe we didn’t get accepted into our school of choice. Maybe we failed an exam or didn’t get the job we were hoping for. Maybe we were denied a visa or were injured in an accident. Maybe an important relationship fell apart despite our best efforts to keep it together. Sometimes, experiencing a setback professionally, socially, or physically can trigger a deeper spiritual struggle. Our struggles with family, teachers, classmates, co-workers, and friends can easily translate into doubting God and His presence.

When we are in the middle of severe trials, it’s not always easy to zoom out and consider a broader perspective. However, over time, we can recognize that our greatest challenges were ultimately for our benefit. In eternity, our perspective will change even more. Ellen G. White wrote, “In the future life the mysteries that here have annoyed and disappointed us will be made plain. We shall see that our seemingly unanswered prayers and disappointed hopes have been among our greatest blessings.”<sup>1</sup> Though we may not always be able to explain the present, we can choose to trust God with what is happening. Reviewing our past history and how God has led us in the past can give us confidence that God is still guiding.

The stories of the Bible also reveal a larger purpose and bigger story behind our trials. The story of Job is a classic example of someone who trusted God despite not knowing what was behind his sufferings.

Job lost his wealth (Job 1:14–17), his children (Job 1:18, 19) and his health (Job 2:7). His wife then tried to convince him to curse God and die (Job 2:9). After some time, three friends came to sit with Job. They were so shocked at his appearance that they sat with him, speechless, for seven days (Job 2:13). Eventually, when they spoke, they tried to offer human reasons for why such misfortune had come to Job, but in doing so, they unintentionally increased his suffering. These three friends blamed him, saying he must have some hidden sin in his life to repent of (Job 8, 11, 15, 21). However, no matter the tragic events that surrounded him, and the fact that he didn’t understand them, Job remained faithful. He held fast. He didn’t blame God or curse Him.

We, too, live in the middle of this same battle. Satan afflicts us with pain, suffering, loss, and hardship as part of his plan to distort our picture of a loving God. In such times, we can respond in one of two ways: blame and reject God or cling to Him with all our might. Although the battle rages around us, we must remember that, in light of eternity, our momentary troubles are but temporary trials.

This week, we’ll explore the lessons we can learn from the followers of Jesus who faced unexpected challenges. We’ll consider how we might use life’s setbacks to strengthen, not weaken, our most important relationship.

### inScribe

`Write out Mark 4:37–40 from the translation of your choice. How does this story help you understand how to navigate life’s storms?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing (1905), 474.