---
title:  Life’s Storms
date:   07/06/2026
---

### inGest

Jesus had spent the day speaking to large crowds of people on the shores of Galilee. Jesus’ words would echo in the people’s minds for a long time and down throughout eternity. As evening fell, Jesus spoke to His disciples, inviting them to go on a journey with Him. “Let us cross over to the other side” (Mark 4:35). Jesus knew a storm would come but suggested they go anyway. He had an important life lesson to teach His closest followers.

Consider these points:

1. Jesus falls asleep on what was likely the only pillow in the boat. The fishing boats usually had one pillow, which the driver of the boat, at the stern, sat on. The person at the stern guided the boat to the destination.
2. Not all the disciples were new to sailing. Peter, Andrew, James, and John were experienced fishermen. They knew the Sea of Galilee like the backs of their hands, and they would have known how to combat a storm.
3. This is the only recorded Gospel account of Jesus sleeping. During one of the worst storms in their lives, when the disciples are terrified and think they’re going to die, Jesus is asleep at the stern.
4. The disciples’ response in their time of crisis is “Do You not care?” (Mark 4:38). They questioned Jesus’ character and His love for them. Too often, this is also our response when we face hard times.

It’s in the midst of hopelessness that we often try to save ourselves (like the disciples), or sometimes it’s when we feel pain or loss that we start to question or doubt God’s love and care for us. We presume He should act in a certain way based on what we think and see from our human perspective. However, as with the disciples, it’s in life’s storms that God can work the greatest miracles. God is always faithful, even when His apparent lack of involvement doesn’t make sense to us. He’s with us in our storms and can calm the storm when we cannot.

**Questions to explore:**

`What is your usual response when you face a storm in your life? How do such moments impact your relationship with God? When have you lived out 2 Corinthians 5:7?`