---
title: 'Be Made Well'
date: 09/06/2026
---

### inTerpret

When the woman reached out and touched the very edge of Jesus’ garment, her life was changed forever.

After the stormy night on the lake and healing a demon-possessed man in the country of the Gadarenes, Jesus crosses back over the Sea of Galilee by boat and lands near the town of Capernaum, where large crowds wait for Him. As He steps from the boat, crowds press close around Him, following Him into town.

One of the people in the crowd is a woman who has been unwell for many years. She’s spent all her money on doctors, but she “was no better, but rather grew worse” (Mark 5:26). For twelve years she has suffered constant setbacks. She’s heard about this great Man of Galilee and, with hope in her heart, gathers what little strength she has to leave her house that morning to join the crowd. The press of the people feels almost suffocating as she inches closer to Jesus. Then, through the pushing and shoving, she sees Him. She encourages herself: “If only I may touch His clothes, I shall be made well” (Mark 5:28).

When the woman reached out and touched the very edge of Jesus’ garment, her life was changed forever. Not only was she healed physically, but something much deeper happened that day. Jesus received a shy, “fearing and trembling” woman (Mark 5:32), rewarded her faith, drew out her story, and restored her confidence.

This incident shows Jesus’ care and compassion for the sick and lonely, for those usually lost in the crowd. Many people were pressed close to Jesus’ side as they drifted along with the crowd, but only one intentionally reached out to touch Jesus to receive the blessing she so desperately needed. However, it wasn’t her touch that healed her; it was her faith that made her well (Mark 5:34). “The Saviour could distinguish the touch of faith from the casual contact of the careless throng.”<sup>1</sup> Jesus’ garment held no special power; rather, it was the woman’s faith and her choice to reach out to touch Him that healed her.

That frail woman, in her suffering and distress, could have stayed in bed at home that morning, but instead, she deliberately and hopefully searched out Jesus in the hope of receiving healing. Seeing Him at a distance wasn’t enough; she drew close to Him.

No matter how many setbacks we have suffered, Jesus invites us to do the same today. He invites us: “Come to me, all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. Let me teach you, because I am humble and gentle at heart, and you will find rest for your souls” (Matt. 11:28, 29, NLT).

`What barriers made it hard for this woman to come to Jesus? How did she overcome those barriers?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Mark 4:35—5:43. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages (1898), 344.