---
title: 'From Setback to Breakthrough'
date: 11/06/2026
---

### inVite

For the disciples, the small setbacks along the way were meant to strengthen their faith to endure the greatest disappointment of all. When Jesus died on the cross, His followers were stunned, discouraged, and confused. This was the greatest setback of their lives. Questions swirled in their minds. _How had they gotten it so wrong?_

Two of these perplexed disciples walked along the road, talking and reasoning through the events of the past week and how it had all ended. Their hopes and dreams were shattered when the One they hoped would become the king of Israel and deliver them from foreign rule was crucified on a cross (Luke 24:21). To them, this was not just a personal setback but a crushing blow for the entire nation.

As they discussed their troubles, a stranger joined them and entered the conversation. They knew Jesus, but Jesus restrained their eyes so they did not recognize Him (Luke 24:16). Despite not knowing who they were talking to, their hearts were deeply moved as Jesus opened to them the Scriptures and explained the significance of the events that so disappointed them. As they discovered new meaning in the words of Moses and the Psalms and all the prophets, they realized that the events that seemed pointless and tragic were instead a crucial part of God’s divine plan. Though it took time to see, what seemed like a setback was actually a breakthrough.

Once their eyes were opened, the two followers rushed to Jerusalem to tell the other disciples about the things that had happened on the road (Luke 24:33–35). As Jesus came and stood in their midst, they were terrified. Notice His questions to them: “Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts?” (Luke 24:38).

This is also Jesus’ message for us today. Too often, we forget that Jesus walks beside us in our valleys. Too often we don’t recognize Him. Too often we forget that there’s much more to the story. Too often we feel troubled and allow doubts to arise in our hearts, forgetting that Jesus holds our lives securely in His hands. And too often we think we know better than Jesus does about what’s really happening in our lives (Luke 24:18).

With Jesus, our biggest setbacks can become our greatest breakthroughs. The things that seem so pointless and tragic do not take God by surprise. God brings beauty from our ashes (Isa. 61:3). Jesus brings victory out of defeat.

**Questions to consider:**

`What have been your biggest setbacks in life? What lessons have you learned through these experiences?`