---
title: inQuire
date: 13/06/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Storms and setbacks:**

1. What lessons can we learn from Christ’s disciples about how to best navigate life’s storms? Mark 4:35–41
2. What can this story teach us about trusting God even when it seems God is absent or uninvolved?
3. Besides healing the woman physically, how did Jesus restore someone who suffered twelve years of setbacks? Mark 5:25–34

`Personal reflection: What difficult situations have taught you to trust God in the midst of challenges?`

**Breaking through the darkness:**

1. How did two discouraged disciples suddenly see God’s perfect plan where previously they had only seen pointless tragedy? Luke 24:13–27
2. What does God do with our ashes and our mourning when we suffer life’s worst disappointments? Isa. 61:3
3. Why should we trust God’s hidden purposes when we don’t see the whole picture? Rom. 8:18, 28; 2 Cor. 12:9, 10
4. How can we have peace in the midst of the storm? Phil. 4:8–13; 2 Cor. 4:16–18
5. How do trials help us develop character and draw closer to God? Rom. 5:3–5; James 1:2–4, 12

`Personal reflection: What’s a Bible promise that you find especially meaningful when facing disappointment and frustration?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- We can learn to trust God through life’s biggest storms, even when we feel He is absent.
- Jesus especially loves to heal and restore those who have suffered the most crushing setbacks.
- Life’s most difficult trials can develop character and help us have an even closer relationship with God.