---
title:  More Than A Mother’s Love
date:   19/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Maybe the most important love in our human experience is a parent’s love for a child. The Bible often uses the parent-child relationship as a word picture to show God’s amazing mercy and love for people. This word picture shows that God’s mercy is much more powerful than the deepest and most beautiful human love we can feel.

`Psalm 103:13; Isaiah 49:15; and Jeremiah 31:20 show us some pictures of God. What do these pictures teach us about how much God loves us?`

These verses show us that God loves the same as a parent loves a child. We are God’s beloved children. God loves us the same as a good father and mother love their children. But as Isaiah 49:15 explains, a mother may “forget her baby” or “forget the child who came from her body” (ERV). But God always remembers His children. “The Lord’s love never ends” (Lamentations 3:22, ICB).

The word for “love” in Lamentations 3:22 comes from the word _“raham”_ in the Hebrew language. Bible writers use the word _“raham”_ in many other verses to talk about God’s love and mercy. Bible thinkers believe that the word _“raham”_ comes from the Hebrew word _“rehem_,” which means the part of a woman’s body where her baby grows inside her. So, Bible thinkers use this idea to show that God’s love is the same as a mother’s love that she feels for her child when it is born. This love is very strong and powerful. But God’s love for us is far more powerful.

Jeremiah 31:20 tells us what God thinks and feels about His chosen people, Israel. Israel is the same as God’s dear son and beloved child. Often Israel rejected God and refused to obey Him. Their sins hurt God very deeply. But God continued to love Israel anyway and to show them His mercy. The word for “mercy” (Jeremiah 31:20, KJV) or “loving-pity” (NLV) in this verse comes from the same word that is used for God’s love (_“raham”_). The words “my heart longs [feels a strong feeling of love] for them” (Jeremiah 31:20, NIrV) also can be written as “my guts and all the lower parts inside me roar” for them. This verse uses strong language to show us that God loves us so very much, more than we can imagine in our minds. God’s love for His people didn’t stop when they refused to obey Him or broke His law. God continues to love His people anyway.