---
title:  God’s Deep Love For Us
date:   20/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Hosea shows us God’s love for humans. Hosea was God’s special messenger. God commanded Hosea, “ ‘Go. Marry a woman who has sex with anyone she wants. Have [make] children with her. Do this [marry this woman] because the people of the land are like [the same as] that kind [type] of wife. They have not been faithful [loyal] to me’ ” (Hosea 1:2, NIrV). Later, Hosea 11 uses a different word picture to show God’s relationship with His people. Hosea uses the word picture of a loving father.

`Read Hosea 11:1–9. How does the word picture in these verses help us better understand how much God cares for His people?`

The book of Hosea uses the word picture of a parent’s love for a child to show us God’s love. The Bible also uses other word pictures to help us understand God’s love. The Bible shows God as a parent teaching a young child to walk. God also is compared to a parent holding his child in his arms. The Bible shows God as someone who heals His people, feeds them, and takes care of their needs. The Bible says that God “carried” His people the same as “a man carries his son” (Deuteronomy 1:31, NLV). The Bible says that God “loved them [His people] and felt sorry for them, so he saved them. . . . He picked them up and carried them, just as he did long ago” (Isaiah 63:9, ERV).

Compare God’s love for His people with His people’s love for Him. God’s love is loyal. But His people “cheat” on Him the same as a cheating wife. How do they cheat? They don’t obey God. Their sins hurt God very deeply and cause God to punish them. God is loving. But His love is always fair. He will punish sin and evil when necessary. (As we will see in a future lesson, God’s love is both fair and filled with mercy. Being fair and showing mercy are behaviors that work well with each other.)

Did you get so upset about something that your tummy started to hurt? The Bible uses this word picture to show us that God’s feelings for His people are strong. The Bible also uses this word picture for strong human feelings, too.