---
title:  Jesus’ Mercy
date:   21/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The New Testament uses the same word picture that the Old Testament uses to show us God’s mercy. Paul says that God “is our Father Who shows us loving-kindness [mercy and love] and our God Who gives us comfort [makes us feel better]” (2 Corinthians 1:3, NLV). Also, Paul explains in Ephesians 2:4 that “God loves us deeply. He is full of [filled with] mercy” (NIrV).

In many picture stories, Jesus uses words that show us that God’s love and mercy for us are very strong (Matthew 18:27; Luke 10:33; Luke 15:20). The New Testament writers use the same word pictures from the Old Testament to show Jesus’ mercy to suffering people.

`Read Matthew 9:36; Matthew 14:14; Mark 1:41; Mark 6:34; and Luke 7:13. Also read Matthew 23:37. How do these verses help us understand Jesus’ mercy for suffering people?`

Again and again, the Bible tells us that Jesus was filled with love and mercy for people who suffered or were in need. Jesus’ mercy caused Him to help suffering people and take care of their needs, too.

Yes, the people made Jesus cry and feel sad. Imagine in your mind the tears in Jesus’ eyes when He looks at Jerusalem and says, “ ‘Jerusalem, Jerusalem! . . . Many times I wanted to help your people! I wanted to gather [collect] them together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. But you did not let me’ ” (Matthew 23:37, ICB). In this verse, the sorrow that Jesus feels matches the sorrow in God’s heart in the Old Testament. Bible thinkers tell us that only writers from the lands where Jesus grew up used this mother-hen word picture to talk about God. This word picture helps us remember Deuteronomy 32:11. Deuteronomy 32:11 compares God to a bird protecting and taking care of its young chicks.

`Jesus is the best example of God’s mercy for us. That’s because Jesus gave Himself for us. He died for our sins. Jesus is also a perfect example of what each of us can become. How can we live the way that Jesus lived? What can we do to put other people first and take care of their needs? What else can we do to show God’s love to people in ways that they can see and understand?`