---
title:  A Jealous God
date:   22/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible says that God is a God of mercy. In the Hebrew language, God is named “_el rahum_” (Deuteronomy 4:31). The word _“el”_ means “God.” _“Rahum”_ comes from the word for “mercy” in the Hebrew language. The Bible also tells us that God is “_el qana’_ ” or the jealous God. Deuteronomy 4:24 says, “The Lord your God is a jealous [wants you to worship Him and no one else] God. He is like [the same as] a fire that burns things up” (Read Deuteronomy 4:24, ICB; Deuteronomy 6:15; Joshua 24:19; and Nahum 1:2.)

`1 Corinthians 13:4 says that “love is not jealous” (ERV). God is love, right? So, how can He be a “jealous God”? Read 2 Corinthians 11:2 and think about how often God’s people didn’t obey Him (read an example in Psalm 78:58). How do these verses help us understand what the Bible means when it says that God is jealous?`

People don’t understand how God can be a jealous God. If you say that someone is a jealous husband or wife, you aren’t praising him or her. The word “jealous” often is not a very nice word in many languages. But in the Bible, when God is jealous, His being jealous is not bad. God’s jealous feelings are the same as a loving husband who wants to be the only man who has a love relationship with his wife.

The Bible tells us that love isn’t jealous (1 Corinthians 13:4). At the same time, the Bible says that love can also be holy. Paul says that this jealous feeling “comes from God” (2 Corinthians 11:2, ERV). God’s jealous feelings are the only holy jealous feelings. These feelings really talk about God’s deep love for His people.

God’s jealous feelings (_“qana’_ ”) for His people come from His deep love for them. God wants His people to worship Him and nothing else. God wants to be their only God. The Bible often shows us a picture of God as a lover who was rejected and as someone who loves people who don’t love Him back (read Hosea 1–3; Jeremiah 2:2; Jeremiah 3:1–12). So, God’s jealous feelings for His people don’t happen without a cause. His people do evil and cause God to feel hurt and jealous. Jealous humans want things that don’t belong to them. But God’s jealous love is never evil. He wants to be the only God His people worship.