---
title:  Mercy And Love
date:   23/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The God of the Bible is filled with mercy. His love is strong and deep. Jesus shows us these strong feelings. Jesus shows us that God loves us very much. God feels pity for people when they are in trouble (compare with Isaiah 63:9; Hebrews 4:15). God is sad when His people suffer (Judges 10:16; Luke 19:41). God is always willing to hear, answer, and comfort His people (Isaiah 49:10, 15; Matthew 9:36; Matthew 14:14).

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:4–8. How do these verses ask us to show God’s amazing mercy and love in our relationships with other people?`

We want relationships with people who show the love that we read about in 1 Corinthians 13:4–8. But how often do we show this same love to other people? We can’t make ourselves patient and nice. We can’t stop being jealous, filled with pride, nasty, or selfish. God’s love “never gives up on people. It never stops trusting, never loses hope, and never quits. Love will never end” (1 Corinthians 13:7, 8, ERV). We can’t show this love without God’s help. Praise God that His Holy Spirit pours His love into our hearts when we live with faith in Jesus (Romans 5:5).

God’s mercy and His Holy Spirit help us to show God’s deep and holy love to other people. In what ways can we show this love? First, we must worship the God who is love. Second, we show God’s love when we show mercy and love to other people. We should share our Christian faith with people and help them feel better because Jesus makes us feel better. Third, we should understand that we can’t change hearts, but God can.

So, let us ask God to give us a new heart for loving Him and for other people. God can give us a love that makes us holy and removes the sin from our hearts.

Let Paul’s words to the church members in Thessalonica be our prayer: “May the Lord make your love grow. . . . May your love for one another increase [grow]. May it also increase for everyone else. May it be just like [the same as] our love for you. May the Lord give you strength in your hearts. Then you will be holy and without blame in the sight of our God and Father. May that be true [real] when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones” (1 Thessalonians 3:12, 13, NIrV).