---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Beatitudes,” pages 6–44, in Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing.

“Everyone who knows they can’t be holy on their own may find the strength they need when they come to Jesus for help. Jesus says, ‘Come to me, all you who are tired and are carrying heavy loads. I will give you rest.’ Matthew 11:28 [NIrV]. You are poor. Jesus invites you to accept the gifts of His mercy and forgiveness. These gifts will make you rich. We aren’t worthy of God’s love, but Jesus is worthy. Jesus can save everyone who comes to Him to be saved. Your past experience doesn’t matter. Maybe you feel you have no hope in life right now. Come to Jesus as you are: weak, helpless, and sad. Our loving Savior will come to meet you when you are far away from Him. He will throw His loving arms around you. He will put His holy life and love on you the same as clothes and bring us to His Father. Jesus goes to God for us and says, ‘I died for this sinner. Don’t look at this child, but look at Me.’ Satan complains about us to God and accuses us of sinning. But with more power, Jesus asks God to forgive us because of His blood.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pages 8, 9, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Thanks to Jesus, the Father accepts us. Ellen G. White wrote in the quote above: “He will put His holy life and love on you the same as clothes and bring us to His Father.” Yes, we may feel hopeless when we make mistakes or don’t show other people the love that God shows to us. So, why must we always remember the wonderful news about what Jesus will do for us?`

`Again and again, the Bible tells us that the needs of the people touched Jesus’ heart. What did Jesus do about their needs? How did He act? Jesus took care of their needs. What are some ways that you or your class can meet the needs of people who are suffering and without hope?`