---
title:  Hail the King!
date:  12/08/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 9**

**Hail the King!**

Leviticus reminds us that we are to worship only God (Lev. 17:7; 18:21; 26:1). Ellen White writes that “man is forbidden to give to any other object the first place in his affections or his service. Whatever we cherish that tends to lessen our love for God or to interfere with the service due Him, of that do we make a god” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1908], p. 305). Revelation 14 commands us to “fear God,” give Him glory, and “worship Him” (v. 7) in response to the fact that a religiopolitical power called the beast will rise up in the last days and try to redirect worship to itself. The master of this power is Satan, who has always wanted the worship that belongs to God alone (Matt. 4:8–10). In simple terms, the Bible says there is currently a supernatural war that will only intensify before Jesus returns. The question you and I must ask ourselves is this: “Before whose throne do I bow today?”

The call to worship God is reflected even in the sanctuary, the blueprints for which God gave Moses on Mount Sinai. It was a duplicate of the great temple-palace in heaven, and the Israelites were to worship their King there (Heb. 8:5). “In the Old Testament, God was King. It is no accident then that the Tabernacle, also known as the Tent of Meeting, was placed at the center of Israel’s encampment (Numbers 2). It was common practice for the king of any nation to camp at the center of his army as a meeting place for his people. By descending in the cloud, God could live among his people (Exodus 25:8)” (Benjamin Galan, Rose Guide to the Tabernacle [Torrance, CA: Rose Publishing, Inc., 2008], p. 74). In this lesson we will look for evidence of worship within the book of Leviticus and learn how it relates to us today.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 9 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 9:22–24. You may also rewrite the chapter in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `