---
title:  Worship During the Feasts
date:  13/08/2023
---

#### inGest

The Israelites brought their sacrificial gifts to the sanctuary every day. But at certain times of the year during celebrated feast days the whole nation came together to express thanks and praise to the King of kings and Lord of lords. Each of the annual feast days that God gave to Israel are listed in chronological order Leviticus 23. In one sense the feast days were like national holidays commemorating special events in their history. Each one also included unique ceremonies that portrayed future events in salvation history.

_The Passover Feast_ was an opportunity to worship God for delivering them from the Egyptians (Lev. 23:5; Exod. 12). Every Passover lamb pointed forward to Jesus who would sacrifice His life for us (1 Cor. 5:7).

_The Feast of Unleavened Bread_ was an opportunity to praise God for leading them during their hurried escape from Egypt (Lev. 23:6; Deut. 16:1–8). It pointed to the coming of the Messiah, who is our “bread of life” (John 6:35). These seven days of unleavened bread is also a reminder to confess and forsake the yeast of sin in one’s life (Matt. 16:6; Luke 12:1; 1 Cor. 5:6–8).

_The Feast of Firstfruits_ was a time to thank God for the firstfruits of the harvest (Lev. 23:9–14). For Christians today, it points to Jesus’ resurrection of and the final resurrection of those who died trusting in Him (1 Cor. 15:20–23).

_The Feast of Weeks_ was an opportunity for Israel to praise God for the abundance of this year’s harvest and the other blessings that come from keeping God’s law (Lev. 23:15–22; 26:1–13; Deut. 16:9–11). It also pointed forward to the larger harvest recorded in the book of Acts when God’s Spirit would be poured out on His church on the day of Pentecost (Acts 2; 2 Cor. 1:22; Eph. 1:13; 4:30).

_The Feast of Trumpets_ was a call for sincere repentance of sin in preparation for the Day of Atonement (Lev. 23:23–25). For the Christian, this is a warning and an invitation to prepare of the second coming of Jesus and the final hour of judgment (John 5:24–27; 2 Tim. 4:1).

_The Day of Atonement_, or the Day of Judgment (Yom Kippur), was the most solemn of all the worship times. Although it was a day of rest much like the Sabbath, the people were called to deny themselves, search their hearts, and pray for their sins to be atoned for in the most Holy Place (Lev. 16:29–34; 23:26–32). For the Israelites, this day pointed to the great day of judgment that began in 1844 when Jesus took up His ministry in the heavenly sanctuary as our High Priest (Dan. 8:14).

_The Feast of Tabernacles_ was the final feast of the calendar year (Lev. 23:33–44). They praised God that they were no longer strangers and pilgrims and rejoiced that God brought them out of wandering in the wilderness. This feast helped them remember that they once dwelt in temporary dwellings called booths. They worshipped God for miraculously bringing them to permanent dwellings in the promised land. The Feast of Tabernacles also pointed forward to the time when we will no longer be strangers and pilgrims in this world and will be welcomed into our forever home in heaven (Heb. 11:13–16).

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What have we lost by not keeping the Jewish feast days? What have we gained by not keeping the Jewish feast days?`

`How do the feast days point to their greater fulfillment in Jesus Christ?`