---
title:  The Palace of Worship
date:  14/08/2023
---

#### inTerpret

There is no doubt the tabernacle was furnished like a palace. Gold, gorgeous tapestries, and careful attention to detail were everywhere, especially in the two rooms of the sanctuary: the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place. The Holy Place had the golden lampstand (Exod. 25:31–40; 26:35), the golden altar of incense (Exod. 30:1–10), and the golden table of showbread (Exod. 25:23–30), and the Most Holy Place housed the ark of the covenant, which was covered in gold as well (Exod. 26:31–33).

Yes, the tabernacle was indeed a palace, and the King of kings ruled, guided, and received worship there. Ellen White understood that the wilderness tabernacle was primarily a place of worship. She wrote, “The sanctuary, . . . when made, was to be the visible center of the nation’s worship” (Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 314).

Although the Most Holy Place was blocked from view by not only the tent but also the giant curtain between the Holy and Most Holy Places, people could see the glory of the Lord. The curtains around the courtyard of the sanctuary were only half as high as the tabernacle itself, so God’s glory shown out for the people to see—to a limited degree. They could not see His form resting above the ark of the covenant, but they could see the cloud or shekinah that covered Him and the heavenly light that shone from Him and radiated throughout the whole camp (Ex. 40:34–38; Num. 9:15–23). God Himself was dwelling among His people (Exod. 25:8). Ellen White further specifies that it was Jesus who dwelt among the people (Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 311).

In addition to being furnished like a palace, the temple was also ingeniously laid out as a simple pathway for worshippers to approach and worship God. Each piece of furniture not only revealed a step every worshipper can take toward intimacy with the Lord, but were also beautiful revelations of Jesus!

There are some who claim that there are many paths to God, but the Bible teaches that only one path will take you to Him, and that path is Christ. Jesus Himself said it: “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me” (John 14:6).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are the implications of the fact that God’s glory was intentionally able to shine out of the sanctuary for all to see? What does this reveal about His character? His desires?`