---
title:  Walking Through the Way
date:  16/08/2023
---

#### inVite

The sanctuary shows practical ways that we can reconcile with God:

_1. Faith._ To enter the courtyard that surrounded the tabernacle one must walk through the door. Jesus described himself as “the door” (John 10:9). To approach God, we must do so with faith in Jesus (Acts 4:12; Heb. 11:6).

_2. Confession._ Next, we must approach the bronze altar of burnt sacrifice. By faith, confession, and repentance we must place our sins upon the Lamb, Jesus Christ. Admitting you have sinned in a particular way and confessing that sin to Christ is how you transfer your sin to Jesus, who died for you (Lev. 5:4, 5; 1 John 1:9).

_3. Baptism._ Between the altar of burnt sacrifice and the tabernacle, there was a bronze laver or basin filled with water (Exod. 30:17–21; 40:30–32; Heb. 10:22). The priests washed their hands and feet there before entering the tabernacle or offering sacrifices on the altar of burnt sacrifice. When a person is baptized in the name of Jesus and brought into church fellowship, they also begin their ministry in the church and community.

_4. The Word._ Once one was inside the door of the tabernacle, the table of the bread of the presence was immediately to the right (Exod. 30:1–10). On this table were 12 loaves of bread to be eaten throughout the week. Worship involves consuming the Word of God like bread (Rev. 10:9). Also, Jesus called himself the “bread of life” (John 6:35).

_5. Sharing._ Directly across from the table of showbread was the golden lampstand. It was 75 pounds of pure gold! This also represented Jesus, who said, “I am the light of the world” (John 8:12). Like Jesus, the lamps were fueled by oil, not wax (calling them candlesticks is therefore incorrect). Oil is symbolic of the Holy Spirit (Zech. 4:2–6).

_6. Prayer._ The last piece of furniture in the Holy Place was the altar of incense, which was located just outside the curtain leading into the Most Holy Place (Exod. 30:1–10). Twice per day (morning and evening) the priest offered incense. The sweet smell of the burning incense represented the prayers of the saints ascending to the throne of God (Ps. 141:2; Rev. 8:3, 4).

_7. Presence._ The only piece of furniture in the Most Holy Place was the ark of the covenant. It was called the ark of the covenant because inside were the Ten Commandments, which is God’s covenant (Exod. 34:28). The ark of the covenant was a throne! The seat of this throne was called the “mercy seat.” It was here that God dwelt in a radiant cloud and ruled his people through His leaders Moses and Aaron (Exod. 25:22).

Because our Great High Priest Jesus Christ has gone before us and made a way for us, we all at any time can enter into the invisible presence of God. You can right now go in before the throne room of heaven and speak to, listen to, and worship God directly (Heb. 4:14–16). The heavenly throne room and our God who rules from there is described vividly for us in Revelation 4 and 5. Just as God spoke to Moses and Aaron from the Most Holy Place, so He will also speak to you and me.

**Meditate on Leviticus 9 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you personally through these texts?`

`With Jesus as our reality today, how is our experience the same as the Israelites and their sanctuary in the wilderness?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`