---
title:  Why We Should Praise God 
date:  21/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The famous Russian writer Fyodor Dostoevsky was in prison waiting for punishment. His punishment was death. But at the last minute, Dostoevsky’s punishment was changed. He was allowed to live. He spent many years in prison after that. Later, Dostoevsky wrote about his years in prison: “Never give up hope. Everyone else around you may stop believing that they will be free. You may be the only one left with any faith. But you must not stop believing. Praise God when you are lonely.”

In these lessons, we already saw how Paul suffered many painful experiences and hard times. People hurt him and threw him in prison. But Paul was not sad at all. He wrote letters to encourage the believers in Philippi!

`What does Paul write about in Philippians 4:4–7? How can Paul write about these wonderful things when he is in prison? How do we get “God’s peace” that Paul talks about in these verses?`

Feeling happy is hard when sad things happen. But Paul encourages us to feel joy always. That may feel a little strange to do at times. So, what does it really mean to praise God always? If we believe Paul, then we must do two things:

(1) We must praise God both in good times and in bad times. (2) We must learn to praise God at times that we do not want to praise Him at all.

Paul asks us to praise God when we feel we don’t have any good reason to praise Him. What should we do when we don’t know what will happen next? Praise God more. In other words, we show our faith when we praise God. Faith is not about how we feel. We have faith because we believe in Bible truth about God. In the same way, praise also is not about how good we feel. We praise God because we accept Bible truth about God. We trust in God’s promises, too. Faith and praise show that we trust in God. Trust in God helps improve our thoughts, feelings, and lives.

`What is the Bible truth about God in Philippians 4:4–7? Make your own list of Bible truths about God. Praise God for each Bible truth. How does your list change the way you feel about the difficult things in your life?`