---
title:  Praying For Walls To Fall Down 
date:  22/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

There’s a saying in English: “Don’t paint yourself into a corner!” What does this saying really mean? Make a picture in your mind of a room. You paint the floor in the room. But after a while, you end up in a corner of the room. You are stuck because you don’t want to walk over the fresh paint. So, you must wait until the floor is dry!

Sometimes our faith seems to “paint” us into a corner. Troubles or hard times in life come. Then our faith “traps” us the same as the wet paint on the floor. We look at our problems and must make a choice. We can reject God, faith, and our beliefs. Or by faith we can believe in something that is not possible for anyone but God to do.

God brought the Israelites into a “corner” or a difficult test. The Israelites wandered for 40 years in the desert. After this time, God didn’t lead His people to beautiful, empty meadows. God led His people to one of the strongest cities in the land. Then God commanded the Israelites to march around Jericho for six days. During their march, God commanded the Israelites not to say anything. So, they marched in silence for six days. On the seventh day, God told the Israelites to shout. God promised that their shouting, plus the trumpets, were going to cause the city’s walls to fall.

`Read Joshua 5:13–Joshua 6:20. What does God wish to teach the Israelites?`

Shouting will not cause the walls to fall. When God commands the Israelites to shout, He asks them to do the shouting that David writes about in Psalm 66: “Everything on earth, shout with joy to God! Praise his glorious [holy and beautiful] name! Honor him with songs of praise!” (Psalm 66:1, 2, ERV). This shouting was praise! The Israelites stared at the walls for six days. They knew that they had no chance of breaking those walls on their own. God broke down the walls when the Israelites praised Him.

`How does the story about the walls of Jericho help us understand the meaning of Hebrews 11:30? When God is about to do something new for us, He may bring us to a “Jericho.” Why? He wants to teach us that we don’t win in our own strength. Everything we need comes from God. We must praise Him. This act shows our faith.`