---
title:  The Life Of Praise 
date:  23/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We may think that praising God is hard to do in good times. So, how much more difficult is it to praise Him when times are hard? That is just what the Bible asks us to do. Praise is something that we can get better at. At first, praise may be hard work. But the more we do it, the more praise changes us. Soon, praise becomes a way of life.

`Read Psalm 145. What reasons does David give for praising God? In what ways should the words of Psalm 145 be your own?`

The famous British preacher Charles Haddon Spurgeon wrote a book named The Practice of Praise. The book is about Psalm 145:7. Spurgeon tells us three things we can do that can help us praise God better in our lives.

1. Look around us. If we don’t look around us, we won’t see God’s glory and beauty in this life. Then we will have no reason to praise Him. What do you see in nature that gives you a good reason to praise God? What can you see in your spiritual life that gives you a reason to praise God? Maybe you see faith growing in the life of a young Christian?
2. Remember what we have seen. If we want to live a life of praise, we must remember our reasons for praising God. What are the wonderful things God did for you? What do you do to help yourself remember? Think about these things often. Then you will not forget God’s love.
3. Talk about the things God does for us. Praise is not something we do only in our minds. We can praise God when we are alone. But praise is not only private. Praise is something we say about God to other people. What reasons can you think of to praise God? How will your praise of God change the lives of other people?

`Take a pen and some paper and spend some time writing and thinking about the three things that you can do to praise God. What can you do to make praising God a stronger habit in your life?`