---
title:  A Powerful Song Of Praise 
date:  24/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Acts shows us that our praise can be a powerful force in the lives of other people. Read Acts 16:16–34. In this story, Paul and Silas are thrown into prison after they are beaten. No one is there to put medicine on the cuts on their backs. Paul and Silas are in terrible pain. Their feet are locked in wooden boards. Then the men are placed in a dark prison. Do Paul and Silas give up hope? No! They start to pray and sing.

Then an earthquake opens the jails. But Paul, Silas, and the other prisoners do not try to escape. The jailer is surprised that no one tried to run away. The jailer “fell down in front of Paul and Silas. Then he brought them outside and said, ‘Men, what must I do to be saved?’ ” (Acts 16:29, 30, ERV).

`Why does the surprise cause the jailer to think about his need to be saved? Do you think that the other prisoners stayed because Paul and Silas sang and prayed? How do you think that the songs and prayers of Paul and Silas helped the jailer and his family to give their hearts to the Lord?`

You may be surprised to think that your praise can change the lives of the people around you. What if Paul and Silas sat in the dark prison and complained? Do you think anyone will be saved that night?

We don’t know what happened to the jailer and his family. But try to make a picture of them in your mind reading the words that Paul wrote from another prison in Rome: “God has blessed you in ways that serve [give honor and praise to] Christ [Jesus]. He [God] allowed you to believe in Christ. But that is not all. He [God] has also given you the honor of suffering for Christ. Both of these [acts] bring glory to Christ. You saw the difficulties [problems] I had to face [fight against], and you hear that I am still having troubles. Now you must face them too” (Philippians 1:29, 30, ERV). For sure, if the jailer should read these words, his heart will be full of joy!

`Praise God more when you are around other people. You never know whose life you can change with your words and songs of praise to God.`