---
title:  Praise Is A Powerful Weapon 
date:  25/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read 2 Chronicles 20:1–30. In this story, King Jehoshaphat discovers that praise is a mighty weapon. The king learned that a big army is coming against him. But the king didn’t go out right away to fight them. What did the king do? He “decided to ask the Lordord what to do” (2 Chronicles 20:3, ERV). Then the people of Judah came to Jerusalem for a fast. A fast is a time when people stop eating food for a little while for spiritual reasons. During the fast, King Jehoshaphat prays, “We don’t have the strength to stop this large army that is coming against us. We don’t know what to do! We are looking to you for help” (2 Chronicles 20:12, ERV).

`When you see a “big army” coming your way, what do you do? Read Jehoshaphat’s words in 2 Chronicles 20:3–12. What can you learn from Jehoshaphat about what to do when you are in trouble?`

The Holy Spirit filled Jahaziel with a special message from God. Then Jahaziel announced to King Jehoshaphat: “ ‘ “You will not have to fight this battle. Just stand there and watch the Lordord save you. Judah and Jerusalem, don’t be afraid. Don’t worry, because the Lordord is with you. So go out to stand against those people tomorrow” ’ ” (2 Chronicles 20:17, ERV). After Jahaziel’s announcement, the people worshiped God and sang praises to Him (2 Chronicles 20:18, 19). Yes, God was going to fight for them. But the people also needed to march out and meet the enemy.

This march was not an ordinary march to war. Jehoshaphat commanded a choir to sing praises to God while the army marched out of the city. “As [when] they began to sing and to praise God, the Lordord set an ambush [trap] for the army from Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir who had come to attack Judah. The enemy was defeated [destroyed]!” (2 Chronicles 20:22, ERV). The Bible tells us that God helped His people right at the time that they started to “ ‘give thanks to the Lord. For [because] His loving-kindness lasts [continues] forever’ ” (2 Chronicles 20:21, NLV).

`Read 2 Chronicles 20:1–30 again. What important rules can you find in these verses? How can praise help your spiritual life during suffering and stress?`