---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Jehoshaphat,” pages 190–203, in Prophets and Kings; and “The Fall of Jericho,” pages 487–498, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Let’s teach our hearts and hands to praise God for His love. No one else can match God’s love for us. Let’s teach ourselves to be filled with hope. Let’s learn to live in the light that shines from the cross of Calvary. We always must remember that we’re children of heaven’s King. We are sons and daughters of the Lord. He is the Leader of all the angels. For this reason, God gives us the gift of peace. We can trust in Him without any fear or worry.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 253, adapted.

“I love and praise the Lord. I want you to give Him glory with me. Praise the Lord when you are sad. Praise Him when you fight against sin. Paul says, ‘Always be filled with joy in the Lord. I will say it again. Be filled with joy’ [Philippians 4:4, ERV]. Will joy bring a sad spirit into your family? Of course not. Joy will bring a sunbeam. In this way, you will collect rays of everlasting light from God’s throne. You will share this light with other people around you. I encourage you to do this work. Share this light and life with other people around you. Try to make the lives of other people around you better. Lead them to God. Show them heaven and its glory. Help them to seek the riches that come from heaven. These riches will never rust, rot, fade, or fail. These riches continue forever.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, pages 593, 594.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why must we praise God together? How does your church praise God on the Sabbath? Does praise help you feel near God? If not, what can your church do to improve its experience?`

`What does it mean to praise God when you are sad? Or to praise Him when you fight against sin? How can praise help you in your fight?`

`How has praise changed your life?`

`As a class, pick a psalm of praise to read. What does this psalm teach you about praise? How does it make your faith stronger?`