---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Blessing the Children,” pp. 511–517; “ ‘One Thing Thou Lackest,’ ” pp. 518–523, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“Jesus was ever a lover of children. He accepted their childish sympathy and their open, unaffected love. The grateful praise from their pure lips was music in His ears, and refreshed His spirit when oppressed by contact with crafty and hypocritical men. Wherever the Saviour went, the benignity of His countenance, and His gentle, kindly manner won the love and confidence of children.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 511.

“To those who, like the young ruler, are in high positions of trust and have great possessions, it may seem too great a sacrifice to give up all in order to follow Christ. But this is the rule of conduct for all who would become His disciples. Nothing short of obedience can be accepted. Self-surrender is the substance of the teachings of Christ. Often it is presented and enjoined in language that seems authoritative, because there is no other way to save man than to cut away those things which, if entertained, will demoralize the whole being.”—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 523.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What are ways that you can help children and young people stay connected to Christ and the church congregation? Why is it so important that we do this?`

`We sometimes hear people say that they don’t care about money. That is not true. Everyone cares about money, and there is nothing wrong with that. What, then, can be the problem with money, and why must faithful Christians, either rich or poor, be careful in how they relate to money?`

`If Jesus were to ask you, “What do you want Me to do for you?” how would you respond?`

`Dwell more on Jesus’ words in Mark 10:43–45. What does it mean to live like this? How do we learn to serve as opposed to being served? What does this mean in regard to how we live and interact with others?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Lift Him Up_, “An Obedient Son to Earthly Parents,” p. 32;\
_The Desire of Ages_, “ ‘One Thing Thou Lackest,’ ” pp. 518–523.