---
title:  A Truly Wealthy Wife
date:  02/05/2019
---

`The book of Proverbs closes with praise for a wife of noble character. Identify the characteristics and qualities that are lauded. Prov. 31:10–31.`

The woman described is special, and so is the poetry. Each of the verses starting from Proverbs 31:10 begins with one of the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. One senses from this tribute to a worthy wife that even the whole national alphabet barely provides a sufficient framework to extol her properly!

Proverbs’ emphasis on marrying a good partner is reflected in a dictum of the rabbis: “A man’s home is his wife.” “A wife of noble character is her husband’s crown, but a disgraceful wife is like decay in his bones” (Prov. 12:4, NIV). Here, at the end of the proverbs, rolled idealistically into a portrait of one, are many varied skills: clothing manufacture, buying real estate, agriculture, home and financial management. Meanwhile, she cares well for her family. They love her and praise her.

These extensive talents are not to be expected in every woman, nor are they a blueprint whereby husbands should measure their wives. Rather, through describing these capabilities and qualities, Proverbs conveys what is most important and universally relevant for women, as well as for men: the traits of trustworthiness, compassion, reliability, faithfulness, kindness, and industry. The secret of such a life, according to Proverbs 31:30, is that she “fears the Lord” (NKJV).

In Proverbs 31:10 the word for “virtuous,” or “of noble character” (NIV), means “strength,” “might,” or “wealth.” It is translated as “riches” in Psalm 62:10 and describes Joshua’s “men of valour” (Josh. 1:14; emphasis added). Boaz commends Ruth with the word virtuous (Ruth 3:11). In Proverbs 31:10 there is a play on the concept of “wealth.” True wealth lies in character, integrity, and the fear of the Lord. This vastly exceeds the worth to be found in precious stones.

`Who are some of the women of valor and virtue who have influenced your life? How would you expand the list of character qualities, virtues, and capacities of godly women?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The happiness of the family depends much upon the wife and mother.  

Let a young man seek one to stand by his side who is fitted to bear her share of life’s burdens, one whose influence will ennoble and refine him, and who will make him happy in her love. . . .

“A prudent wife is from the Lord.” Proverbs 19:14. “The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. . . .” “She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her,” saying, “Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.” Proverbs 31:11, 12, 26-29. He who gains such a wife “findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the Lord.”—_The Faith I Live By_, p. 256.

The Lord Jesus is our only helper. Through His grace we shall learn to cultivate love, to educate ourselves to speak kindly and tenderly. Through His grace our cold, harsh manners will be transformed. The law of kindness will be upon our lips, and those who are under the precious influences of the Holy Spirit, will not feel that it is an evidence of weakness to weep with those who weep, to rejoice with them that rejoice. We are to cultivate heavenly excellences of character. We are to learn what it means to have good-will toward all men, a sincere desire to be as sunshine and not as shadow in the lives of others.

 . . . Let your hearts become broken and contrite. Let expressions of sympathy and love, which will not blister the tongue, flow from your lips. Let others feel that warmth which love can create in the heart.—_The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald_, January 2, 1894. 

In the word of God we find a beautiful description of a happy home and the woman who presides over it: “Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.” What greater commendation can be desired by the mistress of a home than that which is here expressed? 

If she [the true wife and mother] looks to God for her strength and comfort, and in His wisdom and fear seeks to do her daily duty, she will bind her husband to her heart and see her children coming to maturity honorable men and women, having moral stamina to follow the example of their mother.—_The Adventist Home_, p. 534.

God has assigned woman her mission; and if she, in her humble way, yet to the best of her ability, makes a heaven of her home, faithfully and lovingly performing her duties to her husband and children, continually seeking to let a holy light shine from her useful, pure, and virtuous life to brighten all around her, she is doing the work left her of the Master, and will hear from His divine lips the words: Well done, good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. These women who are doing with ready willingness what their hands find to do, with cheerfulness of spirit aiding their husbands to bear their burdens, and training their children for God, are missionaries in the highest sense.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 2, pp. 465, 466.