---
title:  Further Thought
date:  03/05/2019
---

Keeping the heart in heaven. “Christians should be careful that they keep the heart with all diligence. They should cultivate a love for meditation, and cherish a spirit of devotion. Many seem to begrudge moments spent in meditation, and the searching of the Scriptures, and prayer, as though the time thus occupied was lost. I wish you could all view these things in the light God would have you; for you would then make the kingdom of heaven of the first importance. To keep your heart in heaven, will give vigor to all your graces, and put life into all your duties. To discipline the mind to dwell upon heavenly things, will put life and earnestness into all our endeavors. . . . We are dwarfs in spiritual attainments. . . . [Eph. 4:13].”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1157.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Many Christians find a support group network helpful as they seek to “guard their hearts” against temptation. In what way might this augment prayer, Bible study, and reliance on the Holy Spirit? In some cases, why might it be a good idea to seek professional help if someone really struggles with temptations that do lead them into sin, and they seem unable to stop?`

`As a class, read your answers aloud to Wednesday’s final question. Discuss the implications of your various answers. As with so many of the wonderful things that God has given us, how can laughter and humor be perverted and twisted into being something actually harmful?`

`In contrast to Proverbs 31, what qualities does contemporary culture tend to exalt in women? How can we as individuals protect ourselves from partaking of that same degrading attitude?`

`In general, what are some of the cultural attitudes about family life in your society that directly conflict with biblical principles of family life? On the other hand, are there some cultural attitudes that parallel biblical principles? If so, what are they, and how can they be used to strengthen our families?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Reflecting Christ_, “Father as Priest; Mother as Teacher,” p. 178;

_Our High Calling_, “Give No Place to Temptation,” p. 85.