---
title:  The Coming of the Spirit
date:   08/07/2018
---

In obedience to Jesus’ command, the believers waited in Jerusalem for the promise of the Spirit, and they waited amid fervent prayer, sincere repentance, and praise. When the day came, they “were all together in one place” (Acts 2:1, ESV), probably the same large upper room of Acts 1. Soon, however, they would move to a more public area (Acts 2:6–13).

`Read Acts 2:1–3. What supernatural elements accompanied the outpouring of the Spirit?`

The scene was intense. There was first a sudden noise from heaven like the roaring of a violent windstorm that filled the entire place, and then what looked like flames of fire appeared and rested upon those there. 

In Scripture, wind and fire are frequently associated with a “theophany” or a divine manifestation (for example, Exod. 3:2, 19:18, Deut. 4:15). In addition, wind and fire may also be used to represent the Spirit of God (John 3:8, Matt. 3:11). In the case of Pentecost, whatever the precise meaning of such phenomena, they were signs introducing a unique moment in the history of salvation, the promised outpouring of the Spirit.

The Spirit had always been at work. Its influence on God’s people in the Old Testament times was often revealed in a notable way, but never in its fullness. “During the patriarchal age the influence of the Holy Spirit had often been revealed in a marked manner, but never in its fullness. Now, in obedience to the word of the Saviour, the disciples offered their supplications for this gift, and in heaven Christ added His intercession. He claimed the gift of the Spirit, that He might pour it upon His people.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 37.

John the Baptist foretold the baptism with the Spirit by the coming Messiah (Luke 3:16; compare with Acts 11:16), and Jesus Himself referred to it several times (Luke 24:49, Acts 1:8). This outpouring would be His first intercessory act before God (John 14:16, 26; 15:26). At Pentecost, the promise was fulfilled. 

Although the baptism with the Spirit at Pentecost was a unique event related to Jesus’ victory on the cross and exaltation in heaven, being filled with the Spirit is an experience to be continuously repeated in the believers’ lives (Acts 4:8, 31; 11:24; 13:9, 52; Eph. 5:18).

`What evidence do you have of the Spirit’s working in your life?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

After Christ’s ascension, the disciples were gathered together in one place to make humble supplication to God. And after ten days of heart searching and self-examination, the way was prepared for the Holy Spirit to enter the cleansed, consecrated soul temples. Every heart was filled with the Spirit, as though God desired to show His people that it was His prerogative to bless them with the choicest of heaven’s blessings. . . . The sword of the Spirit flashed right and left. Newly edged with power, it pierced even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow. The idolatry that had been mingled with the worship of the people was overthrown. New territory was added to the kingdom of God. Places that had been barren and desolate sounded forth His praises.—_The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald_, June 10, 1902. 

The Holy Spirit is the breath of spiritual life in the soul. The impartation of the Spirit is the impartation of the life of Christ. It imbues the receiver with the attributes of Christ. Only those who are thus taught of God, those who possess the inward working of the Spirit, and in whose life the Christ-life is manifested, are to stand as representative men, to minister in behalf of the church.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 805. 

It is by the Spirit that the heart is made pure. Through the Spirit the believer becomes a partaker of the divine nature. Christ has given His Spirit as a divine power to overcome all hereditary and cultivated tendencies to evil and to impress His own character on His church. . . . 

When the Spirit of God takes possession of the heart, it transforms the life. Sinful thoughts are put away, evil deeds are renounced; love, humility, and peace take the place of anger, envy, and strife. Joy takes the place of sadness, and the countenance reflects the joy of heaven. No one sees the hand that lifts the burden or beholds the light descend from the courts above. The blessing comes when by faith the soul surrenders itself to God. Then that power which no human eye can see, creates a new being in the image of God.—_My Life Today_, p. 46. 

The wind is heard among the branches of the trees, rustling the leaves and flowers; yet it is invisible, and no man knows whence it comes or whither it goes. So with the work of the Holy Spirit upon the heart. It can no more be explained than can the movements of the wind. A person may not be able to tell the exact time or place, or to trace all the circumstances in the process of conversion; but this does not prove him to be unconverted. By an agency as unseen as the wind, Christ is constantly working upon the heart.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 172.  