---
title:  Forgiven and Forgotten?
date:  20/07/2021
---

After David had unwittingly pronounced judgment on himself (2 Sam. 12:5, 6), Nathan confronted him with the enormity of his sin. David’s heart was broken, and he confessed his sin. Immediately Nathan assured him that “ ‘The Lord also has put away your sin’ ” (2 Sam. 12:13, NKJV) and that he was forgiven. There was no waiting period for God’s forgiveness. David didn’t have to prove that he was really sincere before forgiveness was extended.

However, Nathan, who already had predicted the consequences of David’s sin in 2 Samuel 12:10–12, went on to state that the child to be born would die.

`What does it mean that God had taken away David’s sin? Did He just wipe the slate clean? Does everyone just simply forget about it? Read 2 Samuel 12:10–23 as you contemplate these questions.`

David also must have wondered about these questions as he saw his world crumbling—the baby dead, his family in disarray (the stories of Amnon and Absalom are two good examples of real-life family troubles), and his future uncertain. And yet, despite the consequences of his sin, which had affected innocent people such as Uriah and the newborn baby, David also began to understand that God’s grace would cover this and that someday all the consequences of sin would be done away with. In the meantime, he could find rest for his troubled conscience in God’s grace.

`What does David feel he really needs? What does he yearn for? Read Psalm 51:1–6.`

With Psalm 51, David went public as he opened his heart and confessed his sins. David’s cry for mercy appealed to God’s unfailing love and His great compassion. He yearned for renewal.

When we consider the cost of rest in Jesus, we need first to recognize that we need outside help; we are sinners and need a Savior; we recognize our sins and cry out to the only One who can wash us, cleanse us, and renew us. When we do this, we can take courage: here is an adulterer, a manipulator, a murderer, and someone who violated at least five of the Ten Commandments who called for help—and claimed the promise of God’s forgiveness.

`If God forgave David for what he did, what hope is there, then, for you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

This experience was most painful to David, but it was most beneficial. But for the mirror which Nathan held up before him, in which he so clearly recognized his own likeness, he would have gone on unconvicted of his heinous sin, and would have been ruined. The conviction of his guilt was the saving of his soul. He saw himself in another light, as the Lord saw him, and as long as he lived he repented of his sin. …

Though David repented of his sin, and was forgiven and accepted by the Lord, he reaped the baleful harvest of the seed he himself had sown. His authority in his own household, his claim to respect and obedience from his sons, was weakened. A sense of his guilt kept him silent when he should have condemned sin; it made his arm feeble to execute justice in his house.

Those who, by pointing to the example of David, try to lessen the guilt of their own sins, should learn from the Bible record that the way of transgression is hard. Though like David they should turn from their evil course, the results of sin, even in this life, will be found bitter and hard to bear.—_Conflict and Courage_, pp. 179, 180.

We should remember that all make mistakes; even men and women who have had years of experience sometimes err; but God does not cast them off because of their errors; to every erring son and daughter of Adam He gives the privilege of another trial.

Jesus loves to have us come to Him just as we are, sinful, helpless, dependent. We may come with all our weakness, our folly, our sinfulness, and fall at His feet in penitence. It is His glory to encircle us in the arms of His love, and to bind up our wounds, to cleanse us from all impurity. …

Put away the suspicion that God’s promises are not meant for you. They are for every repentant transgressor. Strength and grace have been provided through Christ to be brought by ministering angels to every believing soul. None are so sinful that they cannot find strength, purity, and righteousness in Jesus, who died for them. He is waiting to strip them of their garments stained and polluted with sin, and to put upon them the white robes of righteousness; He bids them live and not die.—_The Faith I Live By_, p. 134.

True confession is always of a specific character, and acknowledges particular sins. They may be of such a nature as only to be brought before God, they may be wrongs that should be confessed before individuals who have suffered injury through them, or they may be of a general kind that should be made known in the congregation of the people. But all confession should be definite and to the point, acknowledging the very sins of which you are guilty. …

Confession will not be acceptable to God without sincere repentance and reformation. There must be decided changes in the life; everything offensive to God must be put away. This will be the result of genuine sorrow for sin.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, pp. 639, 640.