---
title:  'Christ in Revelation: Part One'
date:   18/04/2018
---

Everything in Revelation, from the structure to the content, has one purpose: to reveal Jesus Christ.

That’s why the opening words of the book are, “The revelation of Jesus Christ” (Apocalypsis Iesou Christou) . This is generally understood as (1) “the revelation from Jesus Christ;” or (2) “the revelation about Jesus Christ” (Rev. 1:2) . The fact that it is a “revelation” argues against those who believe Revelation is too hard to understand. Why would the Lord have included the book in the Bible if He hadn’t meant for it to be understood by those who read it?

`Read Revelation 1:1-8. What do these verses teach us about Jesus?`

In Revelation, Christ is introduced as “the ruler of the kings of the earth” (Rev. 1:5, NIV) and near the end of the book He is described as “King of kings” (Rev. 19:16) . The great news here is that amid all the chaos and confusion on earth, we can have the assurance that our loving Lord and Savior has ultimate control.

In Revelation 1:5, we have been given a clear reference to Christ as the Redeemer. “To Him who loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood” (NKJV) points to His atoning death on the cross. He has not only justified us but sanctified us, as well (1 Cor. 6:11). In texts like this we can find assurance of salvation, because it shows us that Jesus is the One who washes away our sins. We certainly can’t do it ourselves.

`Read Revelation 1:7. What does this teach us about Jesus?`

Central to the whole Christian faith is the promise of Christ’s return “with the clouds”. Jesus will come again, a literal return in an event that the whole world will witness, an event that once and for all ends the suffering, chaos, and ruin of this world and ushers in all the promises of eternity.

`What does Revelation 1:8 teach us about Jesus? What hope can we find in this verse that can give us comfort amid whatever trials we are facing?`
