---
title:  Further Thought
date:   20/04/2018
---

“In the Revelation are portrayed the deep things of God. The very name given to its inspired pages, ‘the Revelation’, contradicts the statement that this is a sealed book. A revelation is something revealed. The Lord Himself revealed to His servant the mysteries contained in this book, and He designs that they shall be open to the study of all. Its truths are addressed to those living in the last days of this earth’s history, as well as to those living in the days of John. Some of the scenes depicted in this prophecy are in the past, some are now taking place; some bring to view the close of the great conflict between the powers of darkness and the Prince of heaven, and some reveal the triumphs and joys of the redeemed in the earth made new”. — Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles , p. 584.

The texts we looked at this week, in both the beginning and the end of the book, show just how much of Revelation is about Jesus. Even with all the Old Testament references to historical events, the book of Revelation teaches us more about our Lord Jesus. See also Revelation 3:14; 5:5, 6; 7:14; 19:11-16 for even more texts in Revelation about Him. When we put these texts together, we can get a powerful representation of Jesus and what He should mean to us as those who claim to be His followers.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. What does the fact that all through the New Testament constant reference is made to the Old Testament mean for us? What should it tell us about how central Scripture should be to our faith and how seriously we must take the Word of God? How can we protect ourselves against any and all attempts to lessen the authority of the Scriptures in our personal lives and in the life of the church?`

`2. Skim through the book of Revelation and collect as many other texts as you can that talk specifically about Jesus. In class, read the texts aloud. What else do they reveal to you about the nature, work, power, and character of our Lord? What comfort do you derive from what these texts reveal?`

`3. In a world of death how can we learn to find hope and comfort in the promise of the resurrection of the dead?`
