---
title:  Joseph, Master Of Dreams
date:  04/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 37:1–11; Genesis 37:12–36; Genesis 38; Genesis 39; Genesis 40:1–41:36.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “They said to each other, ‘Here comes Joseph the dreamer’ ” (Genesis 37:19, ERV).

WE READ THE STORY ABOUT JOSEPH in Genesis 37–50. The story about Joseph covers the last part of the book of Genesis. In Genesis 37:1–11, we read about the first dreams that Joseph has in Canaan. Finally, in Genesis 50:26, we read about his death in Egypt. Joseph is one of the most important people in the book of Genesis. More is written about him in Genesis than Abraham, Isaac, or Jacob.

The life of Joseph shows us two important Bible truths: first, God keeps His promises. Second, God can turn evil into good.

This week, we will look at the early life of Joseph. Joseph is the favorite son of Jacob. The sons of Joseph give their little brother a nickname: “ba ‘al hakhalomot,” which means “the dreamer” in the Hebrew language (Genesis 37:19). This name really means “master of dreams,” which shows us that Joseph is an expert in understanding dreams. This name fits Joseph well. Joseph not only understands the dreams God gives him. Joseph also works with God to make the promises in these dreams real in his life.

For sure, God keeps His promises, even when the hearts of men are filled with evil.