---
title:  Family Troubles 
date:  05/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

At last, Jacob settles in the land of Canaan. Isaac was only a stranger in this land. But the Bible tells us that Jacob lived in the land (Genesis 37:1). That is when the troubles start. This time the troubles come from inside his family. The fight is not about the land or the use of a well. The fight is spiritual.

`Read the story in Genesis 37:1–11. What causes the brothers of Joseph in this story to hate him so much?`

Joseph is born to Jacob in his old age (Genesis 37:3). From the start, we see that Joseph and his father are very close. Jacob loves Joseph more than all his brothers (Genesis 37:4). Jacob made Joseph a special coat that was long and beautiful (Genesis 37:3). This coat is fit for a prince (2 Samuel 13:18). So, the coat shows us that Jacob wants to put Joseph above his other sons. Jacob wants to give Joseph the special blessing that belongs only to the son who is born first.

In the future, the wishes of Jacob will happen. Joseph will get the special blessing that belongs to the son who is born first (1 Chronicles 5:2). No wonder that the brothers of Joseph hate him so much. His brothers are so mad at Joseph they cannot say anything nice to him at all (Genesis 37:4).

To make things worse, Joseph brings to Jacob bad reports about his brothers. Anytime his brothers do something wrong, Joseph runs and tells his dad (Genesis 37:2). No one likes a tattletale.

Then Joseph shares two dreams with his brothers. His dreams show that God will put him above his brothers. So, his brothers will bow down to Joseph in the future. After his brothers hear this dream, they hate Joseph more. The two dreams come from God (read Genesis 41:32). Jacob scolds Joseph for telling his family about the dreams (Genesis 37:10). At the same time, Jacob thinks about the dreams and what they show about the future (Genesis 37:11). For sure, Jacob thinks that God may have sent the dreams. He is correct, as we shall see.

`Read Matthew 20:26, 27. What important Bible truth do we see in these verses? How can we live this Bible truth?`