---
title:  Joseph Gets Attacked 
date:  06/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The dreams of Joseph soon get him into trouble.

`Read the story in Genesis 37:12–36. What does this story teach us about people who do not belong to Jesus? What can the evil in the human heart lead us to do when we are not under the complete control of God?`

God shows His favor to Joseph. The brothers of Joseph see this favor and get jealous (Acts 7:9). We see the favor of God on the journey Joseph makes to find his brothers. When Joseph gets lost, God sends a man to help Joseph find his way to his brothers (Genesis 37:15). When the brothers plan to kill Joseph, Reuben stops them. Reuben suggests that they should throw Joseph in a pit (Genesis 37:20–22).

We may have a difficult time understanding the hate that the brothers of Joseph have for him. How can these young men do something so mean to their own family member? Do they not stop to think about how much their crime will hurt their father? What these men do is really awful. Their actions show us that humans can be very evil.

“But some of the brothers did not feel good about what they did to Joseph. The brothers did not feel the joy they expected to feel after they hurt their brother. Soon the brothers saw a group of travelers coming. The travelers were Ishmaelites from beyond Jordan. They were on their way to Egypt with spices and other goods. Judah now suggests to his brothers a new plan. They should not kill Joseph. They should sell him to these Ishmaelite traders. Then they will not be guilty of killing him.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 211, adapted.

So, the brothers sell Joseph to the traders (Genesis 37:28). Then the traders sell Joseph to someone in Egypt (Genesis 37:36).

`Why is it so important to ask God to help us win the fight against our evil thoughts and feelings before we do something we never thought we will do?`