---
title:  Judah And Tamar 
date:  07/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Now we come to the story about Tamar. Her story happens after Joseph is sold as a slave (Genesis 38:1). Soon after Joseph is sold, Judah leaves his brothers. His leaving shows us that Judah does not agree with his brothers at all. In the story about Judah and Tamar, we see the same Bible truth that we see in much of Genesis: God will turn an evil act into something good.

`Read the story in Genesis 38. Compare the behavior of Judah with the behavior of Tamar, the Canaanite. Who is the better person in this story? Judah, or Tamar? Why?`

Judah marries a Canaanite wife (Genesis 38:2). They have three sons: Er, Onan, and Shelah. Judah gives Tamar in marriage to his son Er, who is born first. But Er and then Onan are killed by God because they are very evil. So, Judah promise his last son Shelah to Tamar.

Some time passes. The wife of Judah dies. Tamar worries that Judah forgot about his promise to let her marry Shelah. So, Tamar plans to force Judah to keep his promise. As part of her plan, Tamar pretends to be a prostitute. A prostitute is someone who sells sex for pay. When Judah sees Tamar by the side of the road, he pays her to have sex with him. Judah does not know that the prostitute he sleeps with is Tamar. Judah promises to pay her with a goat from his flock later.

In the meantime, Tamar asks that Judah give her his ring and his special stick. These things show Tamar that Judah will keep his promise. Later, Judah hears that Tamar is going to have a baby. Judah accuses Tamar of sinning. Tamar shows Judah his ring and his special stick. Then Judah understands that he is the father of the child.

This story ends when Tamar gives birth to twin boys. One son is named Perez. In the Hebrew language, Perez means “breaking through.” Perez is born second, the same as Jacob. But Perez becomes first as Jacob did. He becomes the future father of the family line of David (Ruth 4:18–22) and of Jesus (Matthew 1:3). Tamar is the first of four women on the family list of Jesus. There is Rahab (Matthew 1:5), Ruth (Matthew 1:5, 6), and Bathsheba (Matthew 1:6), too. Just as God saves Tamar, He will save His people by the cross of Jesus. God also will turn the troubles of Joseph into something good and save them.