---
title:  Joseph, A Slave In Egypt 
date:  08/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Now we turn back to the story about Joseph. Joseph now works as a slave for Potiphar. Potiphar is the captain of the soldiers who protect Pharaoh, the King of Egypt. Potiphar is also in charge of the prison for workers in the royal palace (Genesis 40:3, 4; Genesis 41:10–12).

`Read the story in Genesis 39. As we see, Joseph works as a manager for Potiphar. What gives Joseph big success in his job?`

Almost right away, Joseph is shown as a man of success (Genesis 39:2, 3). Joseph is so good at his job. His master trusts him with everything. Potiphar soon makes Joseph the manager of his whole house (Genesis 39:4). Yes, Joseph has success. But his success does not cause him to turn away from God.

Soon trouble comes. The wife of Potiphar sees Joseph and wants to sleep with him. Joseph refuses to sin with her. He chooses to lose his job and not sin against God (Genesis 39:9). The wife of Potiphar is hurt and shamed when Joseph refuses her. So, she gives a false report about Joseph to her servants and husband. The wife of Potiphar accuses Joseph of trying to force her to have sex with him. Then Joseph is thrown into prison.

Joseph feels as if he is all alone. We all feel that way at times, right? But at this difficult time, “the Lord was with Joseph” (Genesis 39:21, KJV).

In time, the Lord helps Joseph. The Lord blesses Joseph in the prison. Joseph is a very skilled man. Yes, he is a slave in prison. But Joseph makes the best of his time there. God gives Joseph success. “The commander of the guards trusted Joseph with everything that was in the prison. This happened because the Lord was with Joseph. The Lord helped Joseph be successful [have success] in everything he did” (Genesis 39:23, ERV). We must always remember, as Joseph did, where our success comes from.

`Read Genesis 39:7–12. How did Joseph fight against the wife of Potiphar and her invitation to sin? Why does Joseph say that what she invites him to do will be a sin against God? What do the words of Joseph show us about sin?`