---
title:  The Dreams Of Pharaoh 
date:  09/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 40:1–41:36. How are the dreams of Pharoah connected to the dreams of his manager and his baker? What does this connection show us?`

As time passes, Joseph is put in charge of the prisoners. Two of the prisoners worked for Pharaoh, king of Egypt, until they lost his favor. These men are a manager and a baker (Genesis 41:9–11). Both men have dreams that they cannot understand. There is no one who can explain the dreams (Genesis 40:8). As soon as Joseph hears about their problem, he asks them to tell him their dreams. Then Joseph tells each man what his dream means.

Pharaoh has two dreams, too, that no one can understand (Genesis 41:1–8). Then the manager remembers how Joseph helped him understand his dream. So, the manager tells Pharaoh about Joseph (Genesis 41:9–13).

Pharaoh is upset by his dreams. He tells his dreams to Joseph (Genesis 41:14–24). Then Joseph explains the dreams.

The two dreams show the same thing. In the first dream, seven skinny cows eat seven fat cows. In the second dream, seven skinny heads of grain eat seven fat heads of grain. The seven fat cows and seven fat heads of grain show seven good years. The skinny cows and heads of grain show seven bad years. The two dreams show that God is the One who gave them to Pharaoh (Genesis 41:32; compare with Genesis 37:9).

Joseph makes sure that Pharaoh knows that God gives him the wisdom to explain the dreams. God shows Pharaoh the future things that He will do (Genesis 41:25, 28). Pharoah believes Joseph. Then Pharoah puts Joseph in charge of Egypt. “ ‘So Pharaoh said to Joseph, “God showed these things to you, so you must be the wisest man. I will put you in charge of my country, and the people will obey all your commands. I will be the only one more powerful than you” (Genesis 41:39, 40, ERV).

Wow! Thanks to God, Joseph goes from manager over the house of Potiphar to the manager of the prison. Finally, God puts Joseph in charge over all Egypt. This story is so powerful. It shows us how God can work miracles even when things look awful, and we have no hope.

`How can we learn to trust God and His promises when bad things happen, and we feel that God does not hear our prayers?`