---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Ellen G. White, “Joseph in Egypt,” pages 213–223, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Early in their lives, Joseph and Daniel are separated from their homes. They are carried far away to lands where the people do not believe in God. Satan tries hard to get Joseph to sin when his life changes overnight. In the home of his father, Joseph is a favored son. In the house of Potiphar, Joseph is a slave. Then he becomes an excellent worker and the friend of Potiphar. Joseph gets an education by studying. He also learns much by meeting people and watching what they do. Later, Joseph is thrown into the prison of Pharaoh for a crime he did not do. He has no hope that he will ever be free. Then he is made a leader of Egypt to help get the people ready for the difficult time ahead. What helped Joseph to stay loyal to God? . . .

“As a child, Joseph was taught to love and respect God. Joseph often spent time in the tent of his father. Under a sky filled with stars, Jacob told Joseph about the story of his night at Bethel and his dream of the ladder. This ladder went from the ground all the way up to heaven. Angels went up and down this ladder. Jacob told Joseph about the God on the throne in heaven. In these stories, God showed Himself to Joseph. Jacob also told Joseph about the story of his fight beside the Jabbok River. There, Jacob confessed his sins and turned completely away from them. Then God gave him a win over his past sins and made Jacob a prince.

“Joseph was a shepherd boy. He took care of the sheep of his father. His life as a shepherd helped him to become strong in mind and body. Joseph communicated with God in nature. Joseph studied the Bible truth that God gave to Jacob. All these things helped Joseph develop a strong mind. He was loyal to the commands of God.

“During the awful journey that Joseph made to Egypt, Joseph remembered the God of his father. As he did, Joseph looked for the last time at the hills that hid the tents of his family from his eyes. He was leaving his home in Canaan to be a slave in Egypt. Joseph remembered the lessons he learned as a child. He decided to be loyal to God and to always be the servant of the King of heaven.”—Ellen G. White, Education, pages 51, 52, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Compare Joseph with Daniel and Jesus. How are they each the same? How do Joseph and Daniel show us Jesus?`

`How do we learn to trust God when things do not turn out well for us as they do, in the end, for Joseph?`