---
title:  God’s Seal or the Beast’s Mark?
date:   09/06/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 17:9–11; Exodus 31:13, 17; Revelation 13:17; Ephesians 1:13, 14.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘The thingsYou do are great and powerful. You are the All-powerful Lord God.You are always right and true in everythingYou do.You are King of all nations’ ” (Revelation 15:3, NLV).

The song of Moses and the Lamb begins with words from this week’s memory verse. This song will be sung by God’s loyal people. They “are those [saved people] who have won their fight with the wild animal [that comes from the ground] and his false god and his mark [the special proof of his power]” (Revelation 15:2, NLV). How can we be part of that group?

One of the things that points to God’s true people in the last days is the work they do. They announce the third angel’s message to everyone on Earth. This message warns people not to get the “ ‘beast’s [the wild land animal’s] mark’ ” (Revelation 14:9, ERV). This warning is the most important warning in the whole Bible. But there are many confusing ideas about what this “mark” means.

We should not be surprised about these confusing ideas. After all, Babylon means “confusing” or “all mixed up.” (Babylon is a word picture in the Bible that describes churches in the last days that mix Bible truth with false teachings. The word picture Babylon also shows us the governments and religious powers that attack God’s people in the last days.) This week we will try to understand better what the “beast’s mark” means and how to not get it. Instead, we want to get God’s “seal [the special proof of His power] on [our] foreheads” (Revelation 9:4, NIrV).
