---
title:  How Can We Know Who God's People Are? 
date:   10/06/2018
---

`In the Old Testament, there were two ways to know who God’s true people were. One of those ways was circumcision. Circumcision was the act of cutting off the extra skin at end of the male sex organ. As Genesis 17:9–11 tells us, who did God give circumcision to?`

God commanded Abraham and all his future male children to be circumcised. To be circumcised means the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ is cut off. God commanded for all the males among His people to be circumcised eight days after birth (Leviticus 12:3). Circumcision had a deep meaning. God used it as a word picture to show His people their need for a new heart (read Deuteronomy 30:6). That is why Paul writes: “True circumcision is done in the heart. It is done by the Spirit, not by the written law. And anyone who is circumcised in the heart by the Spirit gets praise from God, not from people” (Romans 2:28, 29, ERV).

In the New Testament, circumcision is replaced by baptism (1 Corinthians 7:19; Galatians 5:6; and Galatians 6:15). Baptism is a word picture for the new life we live because of Jesus. We die to sin and rise from the water to a new life (read Romans 6:3, 4). That is why Paul says circumcision is not important anymore. So, what things are now important? The important things now are love that comes from faith in Jesus and obeying God’s commandments.

`Read Exodus 31:13, 17 and Ezekiel 20:12, 20. As these verses show us, what was the second way to tell who God’s true people were? Why did God give humans this gift?`

God gave the Sabbath to humans when He finished making the heavens and the earth (read also Genesis 2:2, 3). The Sabbath started after God made everything. But circumcision started only with Abraham. That is why Jesus said, “ ‘the [Sabbath] Day of Rest was made for the good of man’ ” (Mark 2:27, NLV). The Sabbath shows us we belong to God. We belong to God because He made us. We belong to God because He saved us. He makes us right with Himself and makes us holy. He helps us obey. That is why keeping the Sabbath holy is important (read Hebrews 4:9).
