---
title:  The Wild Animal Power from the Ground and False Worship
date:   11/06/2018
---

`Read Revelation 13:17; Revelation 14:9, 10; and Revelation 16:2. What happens to the “beast [the wild animal]” power that comes from the ground? What do these things teach us about why it is important to escape “the beast’s [the wild animal’s] mark [the special proof of his power]” (Revelation 14:9, ERV)?`

What happens to people who get the “beast’s mark”? God’s anger against sin will fall on these evil people without any mercy. God will punish them with the “seven [last] troubles” (Revelation 15:8, ICB). In the end, God throws these evil people into “the lake of fire that burns with sulfur” (Revelation 19:20, NLV). What a difference between them and the people who refuse the “beast’s mark”!

What is the “beast’s mark”? The verses we read in the question above connect the “beast’s mark” with false worship. Remember how we learned in Daniel 7 that the fourth wild animal power from the sea would try to “change the times and laws” (Daniel 7:25, NIrV)? This power also is the same power shown by the wild animal from the sea in Revelation 13. One law that this power would try to change is the Sabbath. The fourth commandment is the only law in the Ten Laws that points to time. The Sabbath also points to God as the One who “ ‘made the heavens, the earth, the sea and everything in them’ ” (Exodus 20:11, NIrV).

The first angel’s message reminds us about the Sabbath law that the wild animal power that comes from the sea tried to change. The first angel’s message makes it clear to us that we must worship the Lord alone. Why? Because He made us. Seven verses talk about worship in Revelation 12–14. But Revelation 14:7 is the only verse in those chapters that is about true worship. The other six verses warn us not to worship the wild animal power that comes from the ground and his “false god” (Revelation 13:15, NLV). The third angel tells us what will happen to the people on Earth who worship this false god. Then right after that, God’s true worshipers are described in Revelation 14:12. They obey God’s law and have faith in Jesus.

In the end, everyone will belong to one of two groups: (1) people who follow God and obey the Sabbath. Or (2) people who worship the wild animal from the ground (the beast) and his false god (the Sunday sabbath).
