---
title:  Proof We Belong to God
date:   12/06/2018
---

What is a seal? A seal is the same as signing your name to an important paper.Your name proves that the information on the paper is true. In the past, people used special stamps as seals that were almost the same as rubber stamps. People pressed the stamps onto melted wax tablets or wet clay tablets to show an agreement was true or that they owned something. Stamps gave agreements power.

`Read Ephesians 1:13, 14; Ephesians 4:30; 2 Timothy 2:19; Revelation 7:1–4; and Revelation 14:1. As these verses show us, what is God’s seal? How does God give His seal to His people? When does God give His people His seal?`

God’s seal shows that we belong to Him and are under His protection. In his letters, Paul talks about a “sealing time.” This time helps us understand the work God does to get us ready to live with Him. Paul shows a connection between (1) the sealing time and (2) a new life in Jesus and His gift to us of His Spirit. This gift is part of the riches Jesus promises to give His followers when He comes.

The book of Revelation also talks about a time of sealing that happens right before the Second Coming. God gives His final seal to His people during the latter rain. The latter rain is a word picture. It describes the time when God pours out His Holy Spirit on His people. At this time, God “writes” His name in the foreheads of His people. God’s name is His seal.

`What is the difference between God’s seal and “the beast’s [the wild land animal’s] mark [the special proof of his power]” (Revelation 14:9, ERV)?`

God’s seal is given to His true followers. The “beast’s mark” is given to people who worship “the beast.” The seal is given only in the forehead. This fact shows us that God’s followers choose to worship God. The mark is given either in the forehead or the hand. A mark in the forehead means people agree with “the beast” in their minds. A mark in the hand means people do not agree with “the beast.” But they follow “the beast” because they are afraid of what will happen if they do not obey it. People can buy or sell things only if they have the “beast’s mark.” People who do not have the “beast’s mark” will be killed (Revelation 13:17, 15).
