---
title:  "The Beast's Mark"
date:   13/06/2018
---

The third angel warns us not to get the “beast’s [the wild land animal’s] mark [the special proof of his power]” (Revelation 14:9, ERV). What is this “beast’s mark”? As we learned already, the fourth animal power in Daniel 7 is the same as the wild animal power from the sea. This power would “try to change the times and laws that were given by God” (Daniel 7:25, NIrV). One law this wild animal power that comes from the sea thought to change was the Sabbath commandment. The fourth commandment is the only commandment of God’s law that reminds us that God is the One who “made the heavens, the earth, the sea and everything in them. But he rested on the seventh day” (Exodus 20:11, NIrV).

The first angel’s message also makes it clear: we must worship the Lord alone as the God who made us. The third angel warns us what will happen to people who worship the wild animal power that comes from the ground and his “false god” (Revelation 14:15, NLV) “that was made to look like the first wild animal” power that comes from the sea (Revelation 13:15, NLV).

`Read Revelation 14:12. What does this verse tell us that God’s loyal followers do? How does this information help us understand why the Sabbath is very important in the last days?`

Revelation 14:12 says: “God’s holy people must be patient. They must obey God’s commands and keep their faith in Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, ERV). “God’s commands” include the Sabbath. The Sabbath points to God as the One who made us and as the only God we should worship. No wonder many people believe that the “beast’s [the wild land animal’s] mark [the special proof of his power]” (Revelation 14:9, ERV) is connected to the coming test over Sunday worship. Sunday is a false “sabbath.” God did not command us in the Bible to worship on Sunday. God commands us to worship on the seventh day.

Does that mean Christians who worship on Sunday have the “beast’s mark” now? No. Revelation 13:15 tells us that people who refuse to join in this false worship will be killed. In the future, worship will become a life-or-death decision. That is not happening right now. The “beast’s mark” will not be given until the last test comes. But it has not come. That is why no one has the “beast’s mark” right now.
