---
title:  The Sabbath is Proof We Belong to God
date:   14/06/2018
---

The seventh-day Sabbath shows us God’s true people. God’s people have always kept the Sabbath from Adam and Eve down to God’s chosen people in Israel. The New Testament church also kept the Sabbath, starting with Jesus and His followers. God’s last-day people also “obey God’s commands and keep their faith in Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, ERV).

`Read Exodus 20:8–11 and Hebrews 4:9, 10. As these verses show us, why is the Sabbath so important? What special meaning does the Sabbath have for Christians?`

The Sabbath is found at the center of God’s holy law. God gave the Sabbath to humans. It is God’s seal. A seal is an object that proves a person owns something. It shows a person’s power. God gave the Sabbath as proof of His power. A seal includes three things: (1) a person’s name, (2) that person’s kingdom, and (3) the reason for that per- son’s power. God’s Sabbath has all three parts of a seal: (1) The Sabbath seal gives us God’s name: “ ‘the Lord your God’ ” (Exodus 20:10, NIrV). (2) The Sabbath seal shows us the area that is under God’s control: “ ‘the heavens, the earth, the sea, and everything in them’ ” (Exodus 20:11, NIrV). (3) God’s seal also shows us the reasons for God’s power: “ ‘In six days the Lord made the heavens, the earth . . . and rested on the seventh day’ ” (Exodus 20:11, NIrV).

The New Testament says that God made all things by Jesus (John 1:1–3; Colossians 1:16; Hebrews 1:1, 2). Jesus is the One who made our earth in six days and rested on the seventh day. When Jesus hung on the cross on Friday afternoon, He cried out: “ ‘It is finished!’ ” (John 19:30, NKJV). Jesus rested on the Sabbath after He died on the cross. So, the Sabbath has been blessed twice. First, it was blessed when Jesus made the earth. Second, the Sabbath was blessed when Jesus died on the cross. The book of Hebrews explains what our rest on the Sabbath means. It means that “God rested from his work. Those who enjoy God’s rest [Sabbath] also rest from their works” (Hebrews 4:10, NIrV). The Sabbath is a perfect word picture for showing us that we cannot save ourselves.

`The Sabbath is a word picture for resting from our works. What could you say Sunday is a word picture for?`
