---
title:  A Vision of the Prince
date:  09/03/2020
---

`Read Daniel 10:4-9. What happens to Daniel here?`

As Daniel describes his experience, we can hardly imagine the overwhelming splendor of what he sees. That human appearance (Dan. 10:5, 6) harks back to the “Son of man” depicted in the vision of the heavenly judgment (Dan. 7:13). His linen clothing is reminiscent of priestly garments (Lev. 16:4), an aspect that likens this personage to the “Prince of the host” depicted in connection with the heavenly sanctuary (Daniel 8, NKJV). Gold is also associated with the priestly regalia as a sign of royal dignity. Last, the likening of this figure to lightning, fire, bronze, and a powerful voice portrays him as a supernatural being. This is someone invested with priestly, royal, and military attributes. This figure also displays interesting similarities to the heavenly being who appears to Joshua shortly before the battle against Jericho (Josh. 5:13, 14). In the vision, Joshua sees the “Commander of the army of the LORD” (NKJV). Interestingly, the Hebrew word translated as “commander” (sar) here is the same word translated as “prince” in reference to Michael in Daniel 10:21. But a closer parallel occurs between Daniel and John, who received a vision of the risen Lord on the Sabbath day. 

`What similarities do we find between Daniel‘s vision of the Son of God in Daniel 10 and those in Joshua 5:13-15 and Revelation 1:12-18?`

According to Daniel, those who are with him are frightened off, and Daniel himself falls weak and frail to the ground. The manifestation of God’s presence simply overwhelms him. Yet whatever his immediate fears, Daniel’s vision shows that God is in control of history. Indeed, as the vision unfolds, we will see that God provides Daniel with an outline of human history from the times of the prophet until the establishment of God’s kingdom (Daniel 11 and 12).

`If, as we have seen over and over in Daniel, the Lord can keep human history under control, what can He do for our individual lives?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“In those days I Daniel … lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz. His body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude” (Daniel 10:2-6).

This description is similar to that given by John when Christ was revealed to him upon the Isle of Patmos. No less a personage than the Son of God appeared to Daniel. Our Lord comes with another heavenly messenger to teach Daniel what would take place in the latter days.

The great truths revealed by the world’s Redeemer are for those who search for truth as for hid treasures. Daniel was an aged man. His life had been passed amid the fascinations of a heathen court, his mind cumbered with the affairs of a great empire. Yet he turns aside from all these to afflict his soul before God, and seek a knowledge of the purposes of the Most High. And in response to his supplications, light from the heavenly courts was communicated for those who should live in the latter days. With what earnestness, then, should we seek God, that He may open our understanding to comprehend the truths brought to us from heaven.—_The Sanctified Life,_ pp. 49, 50.

Nothing can happen in any part of the universe without the knowledge of Him who is omnipresent. Not a single event of human life is unknown to our Maker. While Satan is constantly devising evil, the Lord our God overrules all, so that it will not harm His obedient, trusting children… .

What lessons of humility and faith may we not learn as we trace the dealings of God with His creatures. The Lord can do but little for the children of men, because they are so full of pride and vain glory. They exalt self, magnifying their own strength, learning, and wisdom. It is necessary for God to disappoint their hopes and frustrate their plans, that they may learn to trust in Him alone. All our powers are from God; we can do nothing independent of the strength which He has given us… .

He would have us make Him our protector and our guide in all the duties and affairs of life.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 3, p. 1141.

Day by day the conflict between good and evil is going on. Why is it that those who have had many opportunities and advantages do not realize the intensity of this work? They should be intelligent in regard to this. God is the Ruler. By His supreme power He holds in check and controls earthly potentates. Through His agencies He does the work which was ordained before the foundation of the world.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 4, p. 1173.