---
title:  Touched by an Angel
date:  10/03/2020
---

`Read Daniel 10:10-19. What happens each time an angel touches Daniel?`

Overwhelmed with the radiance of divine light, the prophet falls. Then an angel appears to touch him and comfort him. As we read the narrative, notice that the angel touches Daniel three times.

The first touch enables the prophet to stand and hear the words of comfort coming from heaven: “Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard; and I have come because of your words” (Dan. 10:12, NKJV). Daniel’s prayer has moved the heavens. For us this comes as an assurance that God hears our prayers, which is a great comfort in times of trouble.

The second touch enables Daniel to speak. The prophet pours out his words before the Lord, expressing his feelings of fear and emotion: “My lord, because of the vision my sorrows have overwhelmed me, and I have retained no strength. For how can this servant of my lord talk with you, my lord? As for me, no strength remains in me now, nor is any breath left in me” (Dan. 10:16, 17, NKJV). So, God does not only speak to us; He wants us to open our mouths so that we can tell Him about our feelings, needs, and aspirations.

The third touch brings him strength. As Daniel recognizes his inadequacy, the angel touches him and comforts him with God’s peace: “O man greatly beloved, fear not! Peace be to you; be strong, yes, be strong!” (Dan. 10:19, NKJV). Remember that the angel has been sent to Daniel in response to his prayers, in order to give him insight and understanding. In other words, the vision that follows in chapter 11 will be one that is intended to encourage Daniel in response to his mourning and meditation over the present situation in Jerusalem. With God on our side, then, we can have peace even as we face affliction. His loving touch enables us to look into the future with hope.

`“To us in the common walks of life, heaven may be very near”. — Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 48. How often do you think about just how closely tied heaven and earth are? How might you live differently if you always kept this truth alive in your heart and mind?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The prophet Daniel was an example of true sanctification. His long life was filled up with noble service for his Master. He was a man “greatly beloved” (Daniel 10:11) of Heaven. Yet instead of claiming to be pure and holy, this honored prophet identified himself with the really sinful of Israel as he pleaded before God in behalf of his people: “We do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness, but for thy great mercies.” “We have sinned, we have done wickedly.” He declares: “I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people… .” (Daniel 9:18, 15, 20)… .

There can be no self-exaltation, no boastful claim to freedom from sin, on the part of those who walk in the shadow of Calvary’s cross. They feel that it was their sin which caused the agony that broke the heart of the Son of God, and this thought will lead them to self-abasement. Those who live nearest to Jesus discern most clearly the frailty and sinfulness of humanity, and their only hope is in the merit of a crucified and risen Saviour.—_Maranatha_, p. 235.

When the angel was about to unfold to Daniel the intensely interesting prophecies to be recorded for us who are to witness their fulfillment, the angel said, “Be strong, yea, be strong” ( Daniel 10:19). We are to receive the very same glory that was revealed to Daniel, because it is for God’s people in these last days, that they may give the trumpet a certain sound.—_Selected Messages_, book 3, p. 390.

“I Daniel alone saw the vision… . And there remained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption” (Daniel 10:7, 8)… . All who are truly sanctified will have a similar experience. The clearer their views of the greatness, glory, and perfection of Christ, the more vividly will they see their own weakness and imperfection. They will have no disposition to claim a sinless character; that which has appeared right and comely in themselves will, in contrast with Christ’s purity and glory, appear only as unworthy and corruptible… .

So great was the divine glory revealed to Daniel that he could not endure the sight. Then the messenger of heaven veiled the brightness of his presence and appeared to the prophet as “one like the similitude of the sons of men” (verse 16). By his divine power he strengthened this man of integrity and of faith, to hear the message sent to him from God. It is when men are separated from God, when they have very indistinct views of Christ, that they say, “I am sinless; I am sanctified.”—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 90.