---
title:  Promise at Sinai
date:   16/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 19:1–8; Exodus 19:9–25; Exodus 20:1–17; James 1:23–25; Romans 3:20–24.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘You have seen for yourselves what I did to Egypt. You saw how I carried you on the wings of eagles and brought you to myself. Now obey me completely. Keep my covenant. If you do, then out of all the nations [people groups] you will be my special treasure. The whole earth is mine. But you will be a kingdom of priests [spiritual leaders] to serve me. You will be my holy nation’ ” (Exodus 19:4–6, NIrV).

Where did God lead Israel after He helped them escape from Egypt? To the Promised Land, right? Where else? While the answer may be correct, it is also, in a way, wrong. God tells us the real answer: “ ‘You people saw what I did to the people of Egypt. You saw that I carried you out of Egypt like an eagle and brought you here to me’ ” (Exodus 19:4, ERV). So, the correct Bible answer shows us that the Lord brought His people to Himself. This was His plan.

When people leave God, He goes looking for them. We see this Bible truth in the Garden of Eden. After Adam and Eve sinned, they hid from God. God went looking for them. He called out, “ ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, NKJV). God always makes the first move. That’s why Jesus says: “ ‘All you who work hard! All you who carry heavy loads! Come to me! I will give you rest’ ” (Matthew 11:28, 29, WE). God invites us all to come to Him. Our future depends on how we answer.