---
title:  At Sinai
date:   17/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What did God promise His people at Sinai? Read Exodus 19:1–8.`

God led the Israelites to Sinai. There, God would give His people the Ten Commandments. Today, most Bible thinkers believe that Sinai is Jebel Musa. Jebel Musa means the mountain of Moses. Jebel Musa is 7,497 feet high. Many modern Bible thinkers believe Jebel Musa is the place where Moses met with God several times (read Exodus 3:1; Exodus 19:2; Exodus 24:18). Years later, Elijah met God on this mountain (1 Kings 19:8). Also, Jebel Musa is the same mountain where God commanded Moses to lead Israel out of Egypt (Exodus 3:1, 10). At that time, God told Moses that he would worship God with Israel in the place where they now met. That would be a sign for Moses that the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob led them (Exodus 3:12).

After two months of traveling, the Israelites arrived at Sinai (Exodus 19:1). The Israelites stayed there for almost a year (compare Exodus 19:1 with Numbers 10:11, 12). During this year, God gave Moses many laws, as we see in Exodus 19–40; Leviticus 1–27; and Numbers 1:1–10:10. Israel’s stay at Mount Sinai is important to the first five books of Moses. While Israel stayed at Sinai, they became God’s chosen people. Israel was the only people group at that time who was not worshiping false gods.

God makes the Promise between Himself and Israel at Sinai. The people agree to obey God and continue their relationship with Him. If they obey, God promises to make Israel His special treasure. Israel will be a kingdom of priests or spiritual leaders. They will be a holy people.

What does it mean to be a holy people? To be a holy people means to give yourself fully to God and to serve Him with all your heart. To be a holy people means to show God’s love and mercy to other people. God wanted Israel to be a kingdom of priests who would help other people meet God. As a kingdom of priests, God’s people would lead other people to Him and teach them His ways and laws. God wanted Israel to be His special people because He wanted Israel to share with people their knowledge about Him. God’s Promise was the same as a legal contract. This contract showed God’s people the relationship that God wanted with them (read Exodus 6:7; Leviticus 26:12; Jeremiah 24:7; Jeremiah 31:33; Hebrews 8:10; Revelation 21:3).