---
title:  Getting Ready For The Gift
date:   18/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How did God get Israel ready for the gift of the Ten Commandments? Read Exodus 19:9–25 for the answer.`

God gave the Israelites His law at Sinai. But first, God told His people how to get ready for the law. Israel must be clean on the outside. Their being clean showed that they fully served God. The people also needed to be ready for God’s glory. When His glory came, “there was thunder and lightning with a thick cloud on the mountain. And there was a very loud blast from a trumpet. All the people in the camp were frightened” (Exodus 19:16, ICB).

The Ten Commandments show us who God is. The Ten Commandments also show us how we must live our lives. These rules are everlasting and for everyone. The Bible tells us that God spoke the Ten Commandments (Exodus 19:19; Exodus 20:1; Deuteronomy 5:4, 5, 24). God also wrote down His law (Exodus 24:12; Exodus 31:18; Deuteronomy 5:22). God gave Moses the law two times as a special gift (Exodus 32:19; Exodus 34:1; Deuteronomy 10:1, 2).

In the book of Exodus, the Ten Commandments are also named “the agreement” (from the word “ ‘edut” in the Hebrew language; Exodus 31:18, ERV). The Ten Commandments are named “the words of the agreement” (from the words “dibre habberit” in the Hebrew language; Exodus 34:28, ERV), too. In the book of Deuteronomy, God writes the Ten Commandments on “two pieces of stone” (Deuteronomy 9:11, NLV; also read verses 9 and 15). The books of Exodus and Deuteronomy name God’s law “the Ten Words.” In the Hebrew language, “the Ten Words” is “ ‘aseret haddebarim,” from the word “dabar,” which means “word, sentence, matter, thing, speech, story, promise, or something that is said.” (Read Exodus 34:28; Deuteronomy 4:13; Deuteronomy 10:4.)

There are two copies of the Ten Commandments in the Bible (Exodus 20:1–17 and Deuteronomy 5:6–21), with only small things that are different between them. Moses spoke the commandments in Deuteronomy to Israel almost 40 years after Sinai, right before the people entered the Promised Land (Deuteronomy 1:3, 4; Deuteronomy 4:44–47). So, that’s why the two copies are just a little different. When Paul said that the law was love (Romans 13:8–10), he used a quote from the Ten Commandments. God’s law is love because He is a God of love (1 John 4:16).