---
title:  "God’s Special Gift: His Ten Commandments"
date:   19/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What are the laws of the Ten Commandments? How are they grouped together? Read Exodus 20:1–17 for the answers.`

Do you see that the chapter on the Ten Commandments doesn’t start with the commands? The chapter starts with the loving things God did for His people: “ ‘I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of the land of Egypt where you were slaves’ ” (Exodus 20:2, ICB). Before the Lord tells Israel His plans for them, He saves them from slavery. God wanted His people to obey Him because they loved Him and were thankful for everything that He did for them.

What is the one word that shows us what the whole law means? The answer is love (Romans 13:10). The most important commandment is the command to love. We show our love in two ways: love for God (Deuteronomy 6:5), and love for people (Leviticus 19:18).

In the first four commandments, we see what it means to love God. In the last six commandments, the law shows us how to love our neighbor. The law starts with honoring God more than anything else. Then the law continues with respecting other people. Let us look at each law, one by one:

1.	The 1<sup>st</sup> commandment: Honor and worship God first above everything and everyone in life.
2.	The 2<sup>nd</sup> commandment: Honor God and don’t replace Him with a false god of any type.
3.	The 3<sup>rd</sup> commandment: Respect God’s name, which includes who He is and what He does.
4.	The 4<sup>th</sup> commandment: Honor the 7<sup>th</sup>-day Sabbath, God’s day of rest and worship.
5.	The 5<sup>th</sup> commandment: Respect parents.
6.	The 6<sup>th</sup> commandment: Respect life.
7.	The 7<sup>th</sup> commandment: Respect marriage.
8.	The 8<sup>th</sup> commandment: Respect people’s property.
9.	The 9<sup>th</sup> commandment: Respect other people.
10.	The 10<sup>th</sup> commandment: Respect yourself so that no selfishness lives in your heart.

As Jesus said: “ ‘If you love me, obey my commands’ ” (John 14:15, NIrV; also read 1 John 4:20, 21). As we see, true obedience is another way of our showing our love and thankfulness for Jesus. We show our love for Him in a powerful way when we are loving and kind to other people.