---
title:  What The Law Can Do
date:   20/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The law of God shows us His love. God is holy and good. His law is holy and good, too. Paul agrees: “So the law is holy. The commandment also is holy and right and good” (Romans 7:12, NIrV).

The Bible teaches us that the law is a very good thing (Matthew 5:17, 18; John 14:15; 1 Corinthians 7:19). You may write poems about the law (Psalm 119). You may sing about the law (Psalm 19). You may think about the law, day and night (Psalm 1:2; Joshua 1:8). The law helps keep us safe from evil. The law gives us wisdom, understanding, health, success, and peace (Deuteronomy 4:1–6; Proverbs 2, 3).

God’s commands are the same as a big fence. Inside the fence, we are safe. If we go outside the fence, then danger, problems, and death wait for us (Genesis 2:16, 17; James 2:12).

The law also leads us to Jesus. Jesus forgives our sins and changes our lives (2 Corinthians 5:17; 1 John 1:7–9). So, the law is the same as our teacher and a guard who watches over us (Galatians 3:24).

`Read James 1:23–25. What is James saying in these verses? How do these words help us understand what the law does and why the law is important, even if it can’t save us?`

A mirror can show you all your skin problems. But the mirror can’t heal your skin. God’s law is the same as the mirror. You can look into the mirror as long as you want. But the mirror won’t make your pimples or rash go away. The same thing is true with keeping the law. We can do our best to keep it. But even our best efforts to keep the law won’t save us.

We must believe that God saves us. We can’t earn this gift with our good behavior. So, some Christians think that we don’t need to worry about keeping the law anymore. But this idea is not correct. The law tells us what sin is (Romans 7:7). The law shows us exactly why we need the Good News about Jesus to save us.

`Can you obey God’s law in your own strength? Are your efforts good enough to save you? What does your answer tell you about why you need the Good News about Jesus?`