---
title:  The Law As God’s Promise For Us
date:   21/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Romans 3:20–24. In these verses, Paul is very clear that we can’t save ourselves with our law keeping. So, why does Paul say we need the law in our lives?`

Moses uses the Hebrew word “debarim” to talk about the Ten Commandments (Exodus 34:28; Deuteronomy 4:13; Deuteronomy 10:4). This word doesn’t really mean “commandments,” but “words.” The Hebrew word “dabar,” which means “word,” also can mean a “promise.” That is why in many parts of the Bible, the Hebrew word “dabar” is used to show the idea of a promise.

Ellen G. White helps us understand this idea: “The ten commandments . . . are ten promises.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 1105. So, we should understand the Ten Commandments as promises from God. These promises will lead us on the right road. When we follow this road (God’s law), God will bless us and do wonderful things for us. But we must obey His law.

`Read Romans 10:4. In this verse, Paul says that Jesus is the “end” of the law (KJV). How should we understand Paul’s words?`

Paul says that Jesus is the “telos [end]” of the law. Paul doesn’t mean that Jesus threw out the law or got rid of it. Paul means that Jesus is the whole reason for the law. So, Jesus’ death on the cross doesn’t mean that we no longer need the law or that it stopped being important.

Paul says that the law is very important and that we always will need it to lead and teach us (Romans 3:31; 1 Corinthians 7:19; Galatians 5:6). The word “telos” is not about time. There won’t come a time when we stop needing God’s law. We always will need it. So, we should not say that Jesus got rid of the law in any way. Jesus is the whole reason for the law. The law shows us who Jesus is.

`How does the law show us Jesus? What does the law show us about ourselves that helps us understand our need for Him?`