---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Law Given to Israel,” pages 303–310, and “Satan’s Enmity Against the Law,” pages 331–342, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“God did some spectacular things when He spoke His law to His people. When the people saw all these amazing things, they knew that God’s law was very important. God wanted His people to understand that everything connected with His worship was special and holy.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 303, adapted.

This rule about how we should honor God is important today. When we understand that God is royal and all-powerful, we will worship Him with respect. When we see God’s glory, our hearts become thankful. Then we will empty our hearts of all pride. The more we see God’s holy love, the more we will see that we are not perfect. We will want Him to change our lives. More and more, we will want to be the same as Jesus in our hearts.

When we see ourselves as we really are, we will depend completely on Jesus to save us. At the same time, Jesus said that if we accept God as our Lord and Savior, His commands are not hard to obey (Matthew 11:28–30). Jesus said that His law will continue forever (Matthew 5:17–20). When we keep God’s laws because we love and feel grateful to Him, we will be in a saving relationship with Him.

**Discussion Questions:**

`The people got ready for God to give them His law. The things they did helped them to understand that God’s law was special and holy. Today, as a church, what things can we do to help us remember that God is holy? Or have we slowly and somehow lost this respect for God? Explain.`

`Think about this part of God’s promise: “ ‘I will be your God. And you will be my people’ ” (Leviticus 26:12, NIrV). What does this Promise mean to us today? How should we show this Bible truth in our personal lives and in the church, as a whole?`

`When God commands us to do something, He gives us the strength to do it. (Read Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 333.) How do we live this promise?`