---
title:  Christ in the Heavenly Sanctuary
date:   28/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth” (Phil. 2:9, 10, NIV).

**Christ the Bridge**

**Introduction**: Rom. 8:3

In the Garden of Eden, our first parents (Adam and Eve) committed the first sin (Genesis 3). The decision they made on that day affected the entire human race. Humanity would have to bear the consequences of disobedience to God’s commandment. Today, each person born into the world bears the burden of sin. Sin brings pain, anguish, and death. The subsequent children of Adam and Eve had to suffer and eventually die. The impact of sin spread to the environment as well. The land, given to Adam and Eve to enjoy, turned into something they would use for their survival (verses 17–19).

Even so, God planned to bring humanity back to Himself and to His kingdom. How could this happen? There had to be a bridge to link humanity to God again. Jesus provided the only means by which humanity could go back to God after sin. The blood of animals offered as sacrifices could not bring humanity back to God. It is only the blood of Jesus that would make this possible.

Since we live in a world of sin, the process of cleansing us continues even many years after the death of Christ. After His death on the cross and subsequent resurrection, Christ continues as an Advocate for sinners. God hates sin, but He loves sinners and wants them back in fellowship with Him (Rom. 5:8; 1 John 1:9).

The only way a sinner can access God’s mercy is through Jesus. For that reason, the Bible urges sinners to repent and accept Christ as a personal Savior. In heaven, Christ serves as our Advocate. He has all the files regarding your life. When you commit sin and repent in His name, Christ takes your file to God and asks for forgiveness on your behalf. The prayer on the cross, “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do” (Luke 23:34) is still as relevant in our time as when Christ first said it.

Many people think that after His resurrection and ascension, Christ completed the work of saving sinners. However, in light of what He does as our Advocate, the deal is far from done. Christ remains an important link between God and humanity, always interceding for the forgiveness of sins. This week we discuss the role of Christ in the heavenly sanctuary, what He does for us in the Most Holy Place in heaven. These lessons are important to understand in the end times.

_Alice Machoka, Machakos, Kenya_