---
title:  Our High Priest in the Heavenly Sanctuary
date:   30/04/2018
---

**Testimony**: Heb. 7:24–27

“After the settlement of the Hebrews in Canaan, the tabernacle was replaced by the temple of Solomon, which, though a permanent structure and upon a larger scale, observed the same proportions, and was similarly furnished. . . .

“Turning again to the book of Hebrews, the seekers for truth found that the existence of a second, or new-covenant sanctuary was implied in the words of Paul already quoted: ‘Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.’ And the use of the word ‘also’ intimates that Paul has before made mention of this sanctuary. . . .

“Here is revealed the sanctuary of the new covenant. The sanctuary of the first covenant was pitched by man, built by Moses; this is pitched by the Lord, not by man. In that sanctuary the earthly priests performed their service; in this, Christ, our great High Priest, ministers at God’s right hand. One sanctuary was on earth, the other is in heaven. . . .

“The sanctuary in heaven, in which Jesus ministers in our behalf, is the great original, of which the sanctuary built by Moses was a copy.”1

“In the temple in heaven, the dwelling place of God, His throne is established in righteousness and judgment. In the most holy place is His law, the great rule of right by which all mankind are tested. The ark that enshrines the tables of the law is covered with the mercy seat, before which Christ pleads His blood in the sinner’s behalf. Thus is represented the union of justice and mercy in the plan of human redemption.”2

“Make friendship with Christ today. Put your case in the hands of the great Advocate. He will plead your cause before the Father. Though you have transgressed the law, and must plead guilty before God, Christ will present his precious blood in your behalf, and through faith and obedience, and vital union with Christ, you may stand acquitted before the Judge of all the earth, and he will be your friend when the final trump shall sound, and the scenes of earth shall be no more.”3

**React**

`What is the significance of the earthly sanctuary to present-day Christians?

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 412–414.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., p. 415.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, “A Vital Connection With Christ,” Signs of the Times, July 27, 1888.</sup>

_Joseph Omato, Kisii, Kenya_