---
title:  The Final Sacrifice
date:   01/05/2018
---

**Evidence**: John 1:29

The Bible recognizes Christ as “the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!” (John 1:29, NIV). In Isaiah 53:7, the prophet writes, “He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.”

This passage comes long before the birth of Christ, whom John recognizes later as the Lamb of God. So what is the link? From the words of the prophet, we see the qualities of a lamb: meek, humble, and submissive to the master. These qualities are evident in the life of Christ, as He was humble and always submissive to God the Father.

However, the connection goes deeper. The law of sacrifice has been in existence since the fall of Adam and Eve. The purpose of the sacrifices is twofold: First, they show the gravity of sin, which requires the blood of an innocent victim. Second, the system foreshadows the final sacrifice for sin that God provides through Jesus Christ.

In Leviticus 16, the Bible explains the process of atonement in traditional Israel. The sacrifice involved animals (Lev. 16:20) whose blood would purify from sin. When God sent Christ, He took the place of the animals. By His death on the cross, He used His own blood as the final sacrifice for sin.

The sacrificial system before Christ was just a representation of what takes place in the heavenly sanctuary. Christ offered His blood as a great sacrifice for the sins of every individual (Isa. 53:6; 2 Cor. 5:21; 1 Pet. 2:24). “Jesus did for us what we could never have done for ourselves: he took our place; he became our substitute; he became our sacrifice and his death satisfied the holy justice of God.”*

Christ meets all the qualifications of a sacrificial lamb. He is the Lamb of God. He is sinless and unblemished. He is meek, humble, and submissive.

He has done away with the old law and set up a new covenant. In His ministry in heaven, He pleads with God in the Most Holy Place in heaven on behalf of every sinner.

**React**

`1. What is the difference between the old system of using animals and the new system of sacrificing that Christ initiated by His own blood?`

<sup>* “Jesus Our Substitute,” BibleAnswers.ie, accessed March 21, 2017, http://www.bibleanswers .ie/short-bible-studies/64-jesus-christ/158-lamb-of-god.</sup>

_John Bosco, Rongo town, Kenya_