---
title:  The Role of Christ in the Sanctuary
date:   02/05/2018
---

**How-to**: Heb. 8:6

One of the Fundamental Beliefs of the Seventh-day Adventist Church is “Christ’s Ministry in the Heavenly Sanctuary.” Some two millennia ago, Christ ascended to heaven after His earthly ministry was complete. His death on the cross was the ultimate sacrifice to redeem humanity from sin and its consequences. However, since we live in a sinful world surrounded with evil, the process of redeeming humanity is not complete yet. Christ, as our Mediator in the heavenly sanctuary, stands between humanity and God to restore the broken relationship.

Through Him, lost humanity can have another chance to be reconciled to God. First, Christ is the fitting model of sacrifice through which God can forgive sins. He does not need to beg God to forgive us our sins. God already loves us and is in a constant search for us (John 16:26, 27).

Second, in His mediatorial work, Christ does not change God’s attitude toward us. Christ’s death for humanity is the result of God’s infinite love (John 3:16). Third, God did not move away from sinners; sinners moved away from God. Therefore, Christ does not ask God to reconcile with humanity. As sinners, it is we who must go back to God (Gen. 3:9; 2 Cor. 5:20), and we shall surely find Him where we left Him.

So what does Christ do in our behalf in the heavenly sanctuary? Christ meets God to help us deal with sin. Heaven is aware that we live in a world full of evil. In the heavenly sanctuary, Christ, God the Father, and the Holy Spirit unite in helping us deal with Satan and sin. The entire Godhead wants us to have the power to overcome sin and to grow spiritually.

Christ prays for us. In the heavenly sanctuary, especially as the world moves closer to its end, Christ prays for us so we can develop unwavering faith and so we can remain united in truth and love. Just as He prayed for Peter (Luke 22:32), He wants us to know Him better, to be victorious in Him, and to be bold and courageous.

Christ empowers us to be His witnesses. As His followers, Christ wants us to be true witnesses. He empowers us by imparting the Holy Spirit, who provides the power and the benefits of being faithful followers.

**React**

`1. What else do you think Christ is doing in the heavenly sanctuary? Please support your answer with Scripture.`

`2. How long do you think the mediatory service will take?`

_Mary Brenda Akoth, Kisii, Kenya_