---
title:  The Intercessory Ministry of Christ
date:   03/05/2018
---

**Opinion**: Luke 9:22

Sin corrupts to the extent that we are unable to tell the difference between good and evil. We walk away from God, taking the opposite direction. However, surprisingly, God does not give up on us. God, in His infinite grace and love, sent Christ to the world as the ultimate sacrifice for sin (cf. Rom. 5:20).

Even after Christ had come to save them, people rejected Him. The teachers of the Law, the chief priests, and the elders all rejected Jesus. But the love of God outshone their lack of knowledge. Jesus died, and God raised Him back to life.

Today we continue to reject Christ. The world looks so enticing, with everything it offers. Even after knowing that Christ died for our sins, we still find it difficult to allow Him to rule our hearts. However, Christ does not give up on us.

In His intercessory ministry, He continues to ask God to forgive us. When we accept Christ as our Savior, we gain access to God and can approach Him without fear. “All blessings flow from the continuing efficacy of Christ’s sacrifice.

The book of Hebrews highlights its two great achievements: it provides unhindered access to the presence of God, and it thoroughly removes sin.”1

The sacrifice of Christ was complete—no more to add to or subtract from it. This is important for us as a church and as young adults in the church. Especially in this time that the end of the world is near, we need to focus only on Jesus because only He is able to save us. The sacrificial system in the Old Testament was just a representation of the heavenly sanctuary.

“Now we know that all the Levitical priests and Aaronic high priests were but prefigurations of the One who is the great High Priest because He is in Himself both God and man ([Heb.] 5:1–10). Now we know that the blood of animals carefully selected so as to be without blemish or spot (e.g., Lev. 1:3, 10), was a symbol of the blood of the Son of God, who would, by dying for us, purify us of sin (1 Peter 1:18-19).”2

**React**

`1. Why is Christ’s intercessory ministry important to us in the end time?`

`2. If Christ has made it easy for us to approach God, why do we still pray in Jesus’ name?`

<sup>1. Sanctuary Review Committee, “Christ in the Heavenly Sanctuary,” Ministry, October 1980, https://www.ministrymagazine.org/archive/1980/10/christ-in-the-heavenly-sanctuary.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>

_Joan Omato, Kisii, Kenya_