---
title:  Heaven Is Real
date:   04/05/2018
---

**Exploration**: Heb. 9:24

**Conclude**

By discussing what Christ does for us in the heavenly sanctuary, we affirm that our salvation is valid. In the heavenly sanctuary, the fate of sinners rests with Christ. The service of sanctifying us, of giving us the power to overcome sin, of helping us become better followers, and of reuniting us with our heavenly Father, is vital in the end time. To erase doubt from our minds completely, now we know that Christ is engaged in an important activity to ensure that we benefit from His death on the cross.

**Consider**

- Drawing a figure of the earthly sanctuary, indicating all the sections. Mark the Most Holy Place with a bright color and think of what Christ is doing there for you now.
- Being a volunteer mediator between wrongdoers on your campus or in your workplace and the administrative system. Note your experiences and think about taking the penalties on their behalf. Reflect on what Christ is doing for sinners in the heavenly sanctuary.
- Having in your music library a collection of songs that highlight the power of Christ to save humanity from sin. Include the song “Power in the Blood” by Lewis E. Jones in your collection. Listen to the message in each song, reading and personalizing the words in each line.
- Making a record of activities that Christ is doing in the heavenly sanctuary. Review your record as regularly as possible, and see how it moves you closer to Christ.
- Rating yourself on a scale of 1 to10 as a follower of Christ. Based on your level of rating, make a list of what you lack to become a better believer. Say a prayer asking Jesus to give you the power to excel in those areas and to offer an intercessory prayer on your behalf too.
- Having a screen saver on your smartphone or computer with 3-D text that says “Christ in the Most Holy Place.” Record the benefits of the intercessory work that Christ does on your behalf.

**Connect**

1. Romans 3:21–26; 8:35–39; Revelation 13:8; 5:12.
2. Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, p. 254.
3. Morris L. Venden, Never Without an Intercessor: The Good News About the Judgment, p. 140.
4. Raoul Dederen, “Christ: His Person and Work,” in Handbook of Seventhday Adventist Theology, p. 187.

_Bob Collince, Nairobi, Kenya_