---
title:  The Agreement With Abraham
date:  07/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 15:1–21; Genesis 16:1–16; Genesis 17:1–19; Genesis 18:1–15; Genesis 18:16–19:29.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But Abram said, ‘Lord and King, what can you give me? I still don’t have any children. My servant Eliezer comes from Damascus. When I die, he will get everything I own’ ” (Genesis 15:2, NIrV).

IN GENESIS 15, we read about the agreement that God makes with Abram. This agreement is the second one that God makes with humans. The first agreement God makes is with Noah.

The agreement with Noah included a blessing for other people. The agreement with Abram also includes a blessing for other people (Genesis 17:7; Hebrews 13:20).

At this time, the life of Abram is filled with both fear and laughing. The Bible tells us that Abram is afraid (Genesis 15:1). Sarah is afraid, too (Genesis 18:15). So is Hagar (Genesis 21:17). Abram laughs (Genesis 17:17). Sarah laughs, too (Genesis 18:12). So does Ishmael (Genesis 21:9). These chapters show us the warm feelings and the love in the heart of Abram. Abram cares very deeply about the evil people in Sodom. Abram wants them to be saved. Abram shows how much he cares for Sarah, Hagar, and Lot. Abram also is kind to the three visitors (Genesis 18:6).

During this time, God changes the name of Abram to Abraham. This name shows us that Abraham will be the “father of many nations” (Genesis 17:5, ERV). This promise shows us that God has big plans for Abraham, for sure.