---
title:  The Faith Of Abraham 
date:  08/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How does Abram show that we must live by faith? God asks Abram to give Him an animal offering. What Bible truth does this offering show us? For the answers, read Genesis 15:1–21 and Romans 4:3, 4, 9, and 22.`

Abram is worried. He does not have a son. So, the first thing that God makes to Abram is a promise: “ ‘You will have a son of your own. He will get everything you have’ ” (Genesis 15:4, NIrV). Abram believes the promise of the Lord (Genesis 15:6). Abram understands that God will keep His promise because of His mercy (Genesis 15:6; compare with Romans 4:5, 6). This story shows us the way that God saves us. At the time, no one else but Abram believed this way. The Egyptians believed that you had to earn everlasting life by your good behavior.

God then asks Abram to make an offering. So, Abram offers animal gifts to God. The killed animals show us the future death of Jesus for our sins. This offering is also a special message for Abram. The birds that fly down to eat the animal offerings (Genesis 15:9–11) are a word picture for what will happen in the years to come. These birds show Abram that his future children will suffer as slaves in Egypt for 400 years (Genesis 15:13, 16). After that time, his future children will come back to the Promised Land (Genesis 15:16).

Next, we read about what happens after “the sun set [went down] and it became dark. Then a burning torch [a long piece of wood that is set on fire and used for light] and a pot filled with smoking coals appeared. They passed between the pieces of the animals that had been cut in two” (Genesis 15:17, NIrV). This miracle shows us that God will keep His promise to the future children of Abram. God will give them the Promised Land (Genesis 15:18).

So, “the Lord made an agreement with Abram on that day. He said, ‘I have given this land to your children and to their children’s children, from the river of Egypt as far as the big Euphrates River’ ” (Genesis 15:18, NLV). The rivers around the Promised Land help us remember the rivers around the Garden of Eden (compare with Genesis 2:13, 14). So, the promise to Israel is also a promise to the end-time people of God, too. God will bring us back to the Garden of Eden, the same as He brought Israel back to Canaan.