---
title:  Abram Doubts 
date:  09/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Hagar in Genesis 16:1–16. Why does Abram choose to make a baby with Hagar? Did not God promise to give Abram a son? Compare Hagar with Sarai. How do these women show two different ideas about faith?`

God promises to give Abram a son. Now, 10 years later, Abram has no son. So, Abram doubts God (Genesis 15:2). Sarai suggests an idea to help God keep His promise to them. She gives her servant Hagar to Abram so that he can make a baby with her. People in the Near East at this time often did this same thing when they wanted a child.

In this story about Abram and Sarai we see the story about Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. The two stories show many of the same ideas. (1) Sarai and Eve take the lead in the stories. (2) Abram and Adam obey their wives instead of trusting in God. The connection between the two stories shows us that God is not happy with the decision that Sarai and Abram make.

Paul talks about their story to show us that God saves us by His mercy and not by our good behavior (Galatians 4:23–26. In both the Adam and Eve story and the story about Hagar, the same thing happens. When we go against the plan of God for our lives, we get into trouble now and in the future. Do you see that God is not a part of the story in Genesis 16:1–16? Sarai talks about God, but she never talks to Him. God does not talk to Abram or Sarai. God is silent. His silence is surprising. Why? Because He had so much to say to Abram in the chapter before this story, right?

Later in the story, God shows Himself to Hagar. But only after Hagar leaves the home of Abram. We read: “The angel of the Lord found Hagar near a spring of water in the desert” (Genesis 16:7, NIrV). “The angel of the Lord” is often a name for Jesus, the Lord (read Genesis 18:1, 13, 22). God announces to Hagar that she will have a son, Ishmael. His name means “God hears” (Genesis 16:11).

`Why is it so easy for us to make the same mistake that Abram and Sarai made with Hagar?`