---
title:  The Proof Of The Agreement 
date:  10/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What Bible truth does circumcision show us? Circumcision is the act of cutting off skin at the tip of the male sex parts. How is circumcision also a special promise about the future? For the answers, read Genesis 17:1–19 and Romans 4:11.`

Abram doubted God (Genesis 16). His doubt separated Him from God. During that time, God was silent. Now God talks to Abram again for the first time since he doubted. God connects with Abram again in the same way that He connected with Abram when God made His agreement with him.

God gives Abram a sign or proof of the agreement: circumcision. Circumcision includes spilling blood (Exodus 4:25). So, we can see that circumcision is a word picture for the offering that God made for our sins. This idea shows us that “his [Abram’s] faith had made him right with God” (Romans 4:11) before his circumcision.

The agreement and the sign of circumcision also help us remember the first promise of a Savior that God gives humans. (Compare Genesis 17:7 with Genesis 3:15.) The promise of God to Abram shows us more than the future people of Israel. The promise to Abram also includes the saving plan of God for all people on the earth. The promise of the everlasting agreement (Genesis 17:7) shows us the work that Jesus will do. We see in this promise to Abram the death of Jesus for us on the cross. His death will give everlasting life to everyone who accepts this gift by faith (read Romans 6:23 and Titus 1:2).

We see this promise of everlasting life in the change of names for Abram and Sarai. Abram means “most honored father.” Sarai means “my princess.” The change of their names shows us the future plan of God for their lives. Abraham means “father of many people.” Sarah means “the princess” (for everyone). Also, the name of their son, Isaac, means “he will laugh.” This name helps us remember the laughing of Abraham in Genesis 17:17. This laughing shows us his doubt or maybe his wonder at the powerful promises of God. Yes, Abraham believed what the Lord promised him. Even so, Abraham had trouble, at times, living in perfect faith and trust in God.

`How can we learn to keep believing in God when we have a hard time trusting? What must we do with our doubts?`