---
title:  The Son Of Promise 
date:  11/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Everyone who lives with Abraham is circumcised. As we saw yesterday, circumcised means cutting off the skin at the tip of the male sex parts (Genesis 17:23–27). So, Ishmael and “all” (Genesis 17:23, NLV) the servants of Abraham are circumcised. The word written as “all” comes from the Hebrew word “kol.” “Kol” means “all” or “every.” After all the males are circumcised, God appears to Abraham. Then God promises Abraham a son.

`Read the story about Abraham and the three visitors in Genesis 18:1–15. What lessons do we learn from this story about being kind to people and serving food to them? How does God repay the kind acts of Abraham? How do we explain this promise from God?`

“Later, the Lord again appeared to Abraham near the oak trees of Mamre. It was the hottest part of the day, and Abraham was sitting at the door of his tent” (Genesis 18:1, ERV). Visitors do not often come to the desert. So, Abraham may have wanted to meet these strangers and talk with them. Abraham ran to the men (Genesis 18:2). Remember, Abraham was 99 years old! Abraham names one of these persons Adonai, which means “my Lord” (Genesis 18:3, NIrV). This name is often used for God (Genesis 20:4; Exodus 15:17). Then Abraham rushed to get the meal ready for them (Genesis 18:6, 7). Abraham stood next to the visitors. He took care of their needs. He was ready to serve them (Genesis 18:8).

Abraham is an excellent example of how we should welcome people into our homes (Hebrews 13:2). The Bible tells us that our welcoming strangers and guests into our homes is our religious duty as Christians. When we welcome other people into our homes, we welcome God Himself (compare with Matthew 25:35–40). God is shown more in the hungry and needy stranger than in the person who feeds Him.

In the same way that God came to Abraham, we see Jesus, who left heaven and came to this earth. Jesus became a human servant to save humans (Philippians 2:7, 8). Jesus came to this earth to keep the promise of God to save us. In the same way, God comes to Abraham to keep His promise to Abraham and Sarah that they will have a son. The coming of God to Abraham makes His promise sure (Genesis 18:10).