---
title:  Lot In Sodom 
date:  12/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Sodom in Genesis 18:16–19:29. How responsible does Abraham feel for Lot, who lives in Sodom?`

God has just told Abraham again that He will give him a son. What does Abraham do next? Does he celebrate the good news? No. Abraham wants to talk to God about Lot in Sodom. Abraham is a prophet or special messenger. As a prophet, Abraham is someone who goes to God to ask Him to save sinners and evil people. “The men turned away and went toward Sodom. But Abraham remained [stayed where he was] standing in front of the Lord” (Genesis 18:22, NIrV). Do you see the words “standing in front of the Lord”? Those words show us that Abraham was praying.

Abraham asks God to save Sodom, where his nephew Lot lives. Abraham bargains with God for the lives of the people of the city. God agrees to save the people of Sodom if only 10 good Sodomites live in the city.

In the meantime, the two angels go to Sodom to warn Lot (Genesis 19:1–3). What happens next shows us that the city of Sodom is very evil (Genesis 19:4-10).

“Now the final night of Sodom comes. Dark clouds are above the city. These clouds are a sign. They show the anger of God. But the people of Sodom do not understand the sign. The destroying angels come near the city. At this very instant, the men in the city dream about pleasure and getting rich. The final day of Sodom is the same as every other day that came before it. Evening comes. The city looks so safe and beautiful in the fading light of the sun. The evening is cool and inviting. Crowds of people come out into the city to seek for pleasure. They care only about the pleasure they can find at that hour.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 157, 158, adapted.

In the end, God saves only Lot, his wife, and their two daughters (Genesis 19:15). The sons-in-law of Lot stay in the city (Genesis 19:14). Then the beautiful country is destroyed. The word written as “destroyed” is “hafakh” in the Hebrew language. We see this word many times in the story: Genesis 19:21, 25, 29. “Hafakh” shows us that Sodom is totally destroyed (Deuteronomy 29:23; Amos 4:11). Nothing is left. So, Sodom is “reversed” in the same way that the Flood “reversed” everything God made (Genesis 6:7). What happens to Sodom is a word picture, too. It shows us what will happen in the end times (Jude 1:7).