---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Law and the Covenants,” pages 370–373; in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Abraham asked God to save the people of Sodom (Genesis 18:22–33). The example of Abraham should encourage us to pray for sinners, even if we feel there is no hope for them to be saved. The answer of God shows us that God is willing to forgive. God will show His mercy, even when only a small number of people can be saved.

“God will forgive the whole city if there is only a small group of people in the city who are loyal to Him.”—Gerhard F. Hasel, The Remnant: The History and Theology of the Remnant Idea From Genesis to Isaiah, 3rd edition (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 1980), pages 150, 151, adapted.

“All around us people are being ruined. What is happening to them is as awful and hopeless as the evil that happened to Sodom. Every day people die. Their chance to be forgiven is at an end. Every hour some people can no longer be saved by mercy. Where are the people who are warning these lost souls? Where are the hands that are reaching out to pull these lost souls back from death? Who has a heart with no pride? Who has faith that will never give up? Who will ask God to help the person who is lost? The spirit of Abraham was the spirit of Christ Jesus. The Son of God Himself is the One who goes to God to get help for sinners. Jesus paid the price to save us from sin. He knows the worth of every person.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 140, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Only the rainbow and circumcision are named as signs, or proof, of the agreement. As you remember, circumcision is the act of cutting the skin off the tip of the male sex parts. Compare the agreement of Noah to the agreement with Abraham. How are the two agreements the same? How are they different?`

`Abraham is an example of what it means to live by faith. At the same time, he made mistakes. What lessons should we learn from his examples?`

`Some people argue that God will not punish the lost. These people say that this act goes against the love of God. How do we answer people who believe this false idea?`