---
title:  The Final Stage
date:  18/12/2019
---

#### inVite

The sanctuary reveals that God is a God of process and transparency to ensure that sin will never rise again. The sanctuary theme and the great controversy theme are parallel. The sanctuary provides a framework for understanding the work of Christ in restoring that which was lost in Eden. The great controversy theme is the backdrop against which the sanctuary’s plan of restoration is given. The plan of redemption as illustrated in the sanctuary reveals God’s way of forever dealing with the issues that caused sin to spring up in heaven with Lucifer. When the final stage of the sanctuary service is completed in the Most Holy Place, every question that the universe had in regard to the claims put forth by Lucifer will be forever settled.

The sanctuary illustrates how Jesus removes sin from the universe. Jesus plays the role of the Lamb. He dies on our behalf. Jesus as our sacrificial Lamb earned the right to remove the penalty of sin. Then after His ascension, Jesus became our High Priest in the heavenly sanctuary. Jesus as the High Priest has the right to apply the benefits of salvation to us and in us, including delivering us from the power of sin. The cleansing of the sanctuary in heaven is the process of God forever removing the record of sin.

The cleansing of the record of sin from heaven is the final stage of the process. Jesus as our High Priest in heaven entered the Most Holy Place and began His work in the antitypical Day of Atonement. While Jesus is doing the work of cleansing the sanctuary in heaven, through the Holy Spirit He is cleansing the temple of our hearts here on earth. The righteousness of Christ covers us, and the righteousness of Christ through the Spirit, working in and through us, cleanses us.

inSight

“The subject of the sanctuary was the key which unlocked the mystery of the disappointment of 1844. It opened to view a complete system of truth, connected and harmonious, showing that God's hand had directed the great advent movement and revealing present duty as it brought to light the position and work of His people. As the disciples of Jesus after the terrible night of their anguish and disappointment were ‘glad when they saw the Lord,’ so did those now rejoice who had looked in faith for His second coming. They had expected Him to appear in glory to give reward to His servants. As their hopes were disappointed, they had lost sight of Jesus, and with Mary at the sepulcher they cried: ‘They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid Him.’ Now in the holy of holies they again beheld Him, their compassionate High Priest, soon to appear as their king and deliverer. Light from the sanctuary illumined the past, the present, and the future. They knew that God had led them by His unerring providence. Though, like the first disciples, they themselves had failed to understand the message which they bore, yet it had been in every respect correct. In proclaiming it they had fulfilled the purpose of God, and their labor had not been in vain in the Lord. Begotten ‘again unto a lively hope,’ they rejoiced ‘with joy unspeakable and full of glory.’

“Both the prophecy of Daniel 8:14, ‘Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed,’ and the first angel’s message, ‘Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come,’ pointed to Christ's ministration in the most holy place, to the investigative judgment, and not to the coming of Christ for the redemption of His people and the destruction of the wicked. The mistake had not been in the reckoning of the prophetic periods, but in the event to take place at the end of the 2300 days. Through this error the believers had suffered disappointment, yet all that was foretold by the prophecy, and all that they had any Scripture warrant to expect, had been accomplished. At the very time when they were lamenting the failure of their hopes, the event had taken place which was foretold by the message, and which must be fulfilled before the Lord could appear to give reward to His servants.”

Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, 423, 424.

``