---
title:  To Love The Lord Your God
date:  16/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Deuteronomy 6:4, 5; Deuteronomy 10:12; Deuteronomy 4:37; Mark 12:28–30.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul [spirit]. Love him with all your strength’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, ERV).

ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT PRAYERS in the Jewish religion comes from Deuteronomy 6. This prayer is named “the Shema.” The prayer gets its name from the first word of the prayer: “shema.” The word “shema” comes from the word “shama`.” “Shama`” means “to hear” and “understand” or even “to obey.” The word “shama`” is used again and again in Deuteronomy and all through the Old Testament.

Let us read the first line of The Shema in Hebrew:

Shema Yisrael Adonai Elohenu Adonai echad.

What do these words mean? “ ‘Listen, people of Israel! The Lord is our God. The Lord is the only God’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:4, ERV). Many times, when Jews say this part of the prayer, they cover their eyes. Why do they do that? They want to show that nothing should take away their attention from God. Bible thinkers believe that the first line of the Shema shows that there is only one God. So, Israel must be loyal only to the Lord our God. Israel must not worship any other god. That is why this first part of the prayer also can be written as “the Lord is our God.”

This one line is part of the first sermon Moses gives to the Israelites just before they enter the Promised Land. The rest of the sermon shows powerful Bible truth. This truth is as important now as it was back then.