---
title:  Love God 
date:  17/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Moses tells the people their history. Next, Moses tells the people everything they must do. Then they will win the land God promised them and have long, happy lives.

Deuteronomy 6 starts with these words from Moses to the Israelites: “ ‘These are the commands, the laws, and the rules that the Lord your God told me to teach you. Obey these laws in the land that you are entering to live in. You and your descendants [future family] must respect the Lord your God as long as you live. You must obey all his laws and commands that I give you. If you do this, you will have a long life in that new land’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:1, 2, ERV).

`Read Deuteronomy 6:4, 5. What command does the Lord God give to the children of Israel in verse 5? What does this command mean?`

Moses tells the Israelites to “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, NIrV). Do you see that the command from Moses to love God comes in the middle of a list of warnings and rules? Not only that, Moses tells the people to love God “ ‘with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, ERV). This command shows us something very important about love: love is all or nothing with God. That means God wants us to love Him with everything in us.

So, our love for God always should come first. Our love for God must be stronger than our love for everything and everyone else. God is the reason we live. So, our love for God should make everything else second in our lives.

In the Hebrew language, the word “your” in Deuteronomy 6:5 means only one person. So, when Moses writes “ ‘love the Lord your God with all your heart’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, NIrV), Moses shows us that God is talking to each person. Moses shows us that God wants each one of His followers to be loyal to Him. Yes, God talks to all the people of Israel as a group. But a group is only as strong as each person who is part of the group. So, that is why God wants each of His followers to obey Him personally. Our obedience shows our faith in God. Our obedience must come from our love for God, for who He is, and what He has done for us.

`What does it mean to you to love God with all your heart, spirit, and strength?`