---
title:  Respect God 
date:  18/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw yesterday, Moses tells the Israelites to love God fully. This love is a command. A few verses earlier, Moses tells the people what will happen when they obey the laws of God: “ ‘Then you and your son and your grandson will fear the Lord your God’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:2, NLV). So, in one verse Moses tells the people to “fear” God. But in another verse, Moses tells the people to both fear and love God at the same time. What is going on here?

`Read Deuteronomy 10:12. What does this verse say about love and fear? What does this verse mean?`

Today, when we think of “fear,” we mean being afraid. But when the Bible asks us to fear God, the Bible really wants us to show God honor and respect. We honor God because He is powerful. He is fair and holy. These are all very good reasons for why we should fear or honor God.

`Read Ephesians 2:1–10. How do these verses help us understand how we can fear and love God at the same time?`

In the past, we refused to obey God. Our disobedience made God angry. (His anger is another reason we should fear Him.) But then Jesus died for us. Jesus gave us a new life in Him, too. This new life includes freedom from sin and punishment. (This freedom is why we should love God.)

This same Bible truth is also true for Israel: yes, they were slaves in Egypt. But God loved the Israelites. His love is the reason He made them free. “ ‘Remember that you were servants in the land of Egypt. The Lord your God brought you out of there by a powerful hand and a long arm’ ” (Deuteronomy 5:15, NLV). No wonder the Israelites should both love and fear God at the same time! If they needed to do that, then how much more should we both fear and love God at the same time, too? Can we really not love Jesus when we think about His dying for us on the cross?

`Read the Message of the First Angel in Revelation 14:6, 7. This end-time message starts with, “Fear [respect and honor] God” (ERV). Why should this command be the first message from God to people on the earth in the end times? We know what will happen in the future. How does our knowledge help us to see why this command is so important?`