---
title:  He First Loved Us 
date:  19/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw already, God commands His people to obey Him. He gives them many warnings and rules to follow. What is the first and most important command that God gives His people? They must love God with all their heart, spirit, and might. Of course, God gives His people many good reasons to love Him.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:37; Deuteronomy 7:7, 8, 13; Deuteronomy 10:15; Deuteronomy 23:5; and Deuteronomy 33:3. What do these verses teach us about the love of God for His people?`

Again and again in Deuteronomy, Moses tells the people about the love of God for them and their fathers. God shows His love for His people by His kind words. God also shows His love by His actions. So, even when the Israelites fail, make mistakes, or sin, the love of God does not change. God continues to love His people. God shows His people He loves them very much by everything He does for them.

“We love Him because He loved us first” (1 John 4:19, NLV). How does this verse show why we should love God?

God loves us so much. He loved us before He made us! How do we know? Because God made a plan to save us before He made the earth. As Paul explains, “God chose us to belong to Christ before the world [the earth and everything in it] was created [made]” (Ephesians 1:4, NIrV).

Ellen G. White writes about this idea, too. She says, “God did not wait for Adam to sin before He made a plan to save us. His plan “was kept secret for a long time in the past. But it has now been made known” (Romans 16:25 [WE]. This saving plan showed the important rules that have been part of the government of God forever.”—The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

We should be very grateful that God is a God of love. He loves us so much. His love caused Him to die on the cross for us. “And when he was a man, he was humble [empty of all pride]. He was even willing to die, yes, to die on a cross” (Philippians 2:8, WE).

`God showed us on the cross how much He loved us. Why should this Bible truth fill our hearts with joy?`