---
title:  If You Love Me, Keep My Commandments 
date:  20/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God asks all Israel to love Him. This love for God happens only when each person, one by one, in the whole group chooses to love God. God gives each Israelite the freedom to choose to love Him. Each Israelite shows his or her love by obedience.

Read the verses below. How are they all the same?

Deuteronomy 5:10 __________________________________________

Deuteronomy 7:9 ___________________________________________

Deuteronomy 10:12 _________________________________________

Deuteronomy 11:1 __________________________________________

Deuteronomy 19:9 __________________________________________

The Bible is very plain about what God expects from His people. The people show their love to God by their actions. In the same way, God not only says He loves us. God shows His love by everything He does. These verses show that we cannot separate our love for God from obedience.

We see this basic teaching in other verses in the Bible. John writes, “We show that we love God when we obey his laws. His laws are not hard to obey” (1 John 5:3, WE). Jesus says, “ ‘If you love me, you will obey me’ ” (John 14:15, WE). So, our love for God always must be shown by our obedience. Our obedience to God means obedience to His law, the Ten Commandments. This law includes the Sabbath, or 4th commandment. Obeying the 4th commandment is not about our trying to save ourselves by our own good behavior.

Some people may try to obey God to earn His favor. But  their behavior does not come from real love for God. When we really love God, we want to obey Him. Moses tells the people to love God only after God frees them from Egypt. Then Israel showed God they were grateful by loving Him and obeying His commands. Does God expect anything less from His people today?

`Why do you obey God? Why should love be the reason you obey? What part does our respect for God have in our reasons for obeying Him, too?`