---
title:  The First Commandment 
date:  21/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Both the Old and the New Testament show us that God is good and loving. But Some Christians want to throw out the Old Testament. They say we do not need the Old Testament anymore after Jesus came. But this thinking is a mistake. The Old Testament cannot be separated from the New Testament. If we separate them, we will destroy the meaning of the New Testament. The New Testament shows us Jesus and explains His work on earth and in heaven. His work helps us remember the promises God made in the Old Testament. Jesus kept all these promises in the New Testament. The Old Testament helps us understand exactly how Jesus did that.

`Read the story about Jesus in Mark 12:28–30. What does a teacher of the law ask Jesus about “ ‘the most important command’ ” (Mark 12:29, ERV)? How does Jesus answer? Where does He get His answer from?`

Some Jews at the time believed there were 613 Jewish laws. So, no wonder the Jews wanted to know which law was the most important one. How does Jesus answer?

Jesus goes straight to Deuteronomy 6. He says this quote: “ ‘The Lord is our God. The Lord is the only God’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:4, ERV). Then Jesus says the next verse, too: “ ‘You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul [mind], and with all your strength’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, ERV). Let us look more closely at this answer. Jesus starts with a quote that shows the Lord is God, the only God. Then after this important Bible truth, Jesus says we must love God first.

Is there any command that is more “present truth” than this command? Remember, present truth is the truth people need most in the time that they live. In the end times, everyone on earth will need to make a choice between good and evil. At that time, the commandments of God (Revelation 14:12) will have an important part in our final decision.

Whatever our choice, the love of God will be an important part of our final decision. Our decision will be about how much we really love God. We can love God fully only when we know Him, His mercy, love, and forgiveness.

`What if someone asks you: How can you love a God you have never seen? What will you say? In class, talk about your answer.`