---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“All the people saved by Jesus will sing about His cross forever. They will study the cross forever, too. The saved ones will see Jesus their Savior in Jesus their King. The saved ones will always remember that Jesus emptied His heart of all pride. Jesus did this to save humans after they sinned. This same Jesus made all the planets in outer space. Jesus is the One God loves. Jesus is the King of heaven. He is the One that the angels with four wings and the angels with six wings love to praise. This same Jesus accepted the guilt and shame that comes from sin. He accepted the experience of dying on the cross that made the Father hide His face from Him. The pain and suffering of our lost earth broke the heart of Jesus and ended His life on the cross at Calvary. Just think about it some more: The same Jesus who made all the planets also decides what happens in life to each person. This same Jesus left His throne because He loved us. He emptied His heart of all pride, too. This thought will always cause wonder and love in the hearts of everyone in heaven and on earth. The saved ones will look at Jesus in heaven. They will see the glory of the Father shining in the face of Jesus. The saved ones will look at the throne of Jesus, too. His throne continues forever. Then the saved will know that the kingdom of Jesus will never end. So, they will sing this happy song: ‘Jesus is very worthy! Jesus is the Lamb that was killed. The Lamb saved us by His own precious blood! Now we belong to God!’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 651, 652, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read the Ellen G. White quote above. How does this quote help us understand why our love for God should be the most important love we have? Think more about this idea: the same God who “made all the planets in outer space” is the One who went to the cross for us. Why should this Bible truth be the reason for our friendship with God and our love for Him?`

`Think more about the idea of loving God and “fearing [respecting]” Him at the same time. How do we do both? Why should we do both?`

`Why is it even more important to love God during hard times than when things are going well?`

`How can you help someone who does not believe in God understand what it means to love Him? How can we, as humans, love Someone we have not seen? Why is it not important that we have not seen Jesus in person?`