---
title:  The Holy Spirit Unites Us With Christ
date:   26/02/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit Unites Us With Christ 

The Holy Spirit unites us in manifold ways. We would not exist as a church if the Holy Spirit did not unite us first with Christ. Christ is the head of the church (see Eph. 1:22, 23; 5:23). Through the Holy Spirit, we are effectually united to Christ Himself. Being united with Christ is the foundation of all the blessings of salvation, because all we have in the Lord comes from Him. Our adoption as sons and daughters of Christ, our justification as well as our sanctification, our living victorious lives over sin, and our final glorification—are all received through our union with Christ. Thus, He must be the foundation of our entire Christian experience.

`Read Ephesians 2:18, 20–22, and 1 Peter 2:6, 7. What do they tell us about the role of Christ and the Holy Spirit in the creation of the church?` 

Through the Spirit, we have access to God the Father. Jesus is the Rock, the foundation of our salvation, and the One upon whom all other parts of the whole building are erected. 

The work of the Spirit on the individual level then leads to a specific community of faith: the church. When we have experienced salvation through faith in Christ Jesus alone, and have been touched by the love of God, there is a sweet “fellowship of the Holy Spirit” (2 Cor. 13:14, NASB) in the church. Individual believers are being built into a new spiritual house of God “in the Spirit” (Eph. 2:22, NASB). As followers of Christ we should be eager “to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace” (Eph. 4:3, NASB). In every way possible, without compromising what cannot be compromised, we need to seek for unity in the fellowship of believers.

`Read Colossians 3:12–14. How can you exemplify these attributes and contribute to unity in the church? Why are these attributes so crucial to the unity of the church?`