---
title:  The Holy Spirit Unites Us Through Baptism
date:   27/02/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit Unites Us Through Baptism

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:13. How does baptism unite us with Christ and with the Spirit?`

It is the Holy Spirit who unites us into one body of believers. The public entrance into Christ’s spiritual kingdom is through baptism. We are baptized into a specific church body. Thus, baptism has a distinct communal dimension and important communal implications. As followers of Christ, we cannot live by ourselves. We all need the support, encouragement, and help of others. And we certainly cannot fulfill the divine mission alone. That is why God has created the church. To follow Christ means following Him in the fellowship of other believers. Thus, baptism and the church have a visible component to them.

`Read Romans 6:3–7. What is symbolized through biblical baptism?`

The act of being buried with Jesus Christ through baptism into death in the watery grave and being raised to new life in fellowship with Jesus, our Lord and Savior, represents the crucifixion of the old life and the public confession of accepting Christ as our Savior. 

“Baptism is a most solemn renunciation of the world. Self is by profession dead to a life of sin. The waters cover the candidate, and in the presence of the whole heavenly universe the mutual pledge is made. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, man is laid in his watery grave, buried with Christ in baptism, and raised from the water to live the new life of loyalty to God.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 6, p. 1074. 

Baptism is a positive step with which all who wish to be acknowledged as being under the authority of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit must comply. In other words, baptism marks true repentance, the crucifixion of the old life, and it signals the new birth or conversion. It also encompasses mutual covenant obligations. The believer promises to be faithful to God and His commandments, and God guarantees that we can depend on His help whenever we need it. 

`Have you made a decision for believers’ baptism? If not, what hinders you from following Christ in baptism? If you have been baptized by immersion, how has your baptismal covenant impacted your spiritual walk with Jesus?`
