---
title:  The Holy Spirit Unites the Church Through the Word of God
date:   28/02/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit Unites the Church Through the Word of God 

`Read Acts 17:11 and John 5:39, 46, 47; 8:31, 32. What is a distinguishing mark of a true disciple of Christ? Why is the Bible so indispensable in pointing us to Christ and in helping us to follow Him faithfully?` 

The primary means by which the Holy Spirit unites us with Christ is through the Written Word of God. The Bible is a trustworthy source for knowing Jesus and the will of God. That is why reading Scripture and memorizing its content is so important. The Bible is the authoritative source for discerning spiritual truth and error. Paul commended the Bereans as noble-minded (Acts 17:11) because they diligently studied and searched the Scriptures in order to find out if what they had heard was true. 

Any reformation and spiritual revival—no matter whether it affects us individually or as a church corporately—must be based on Scripture. The Bible is the foundation on which our faith is built; meanwhile, the love of Jesus and for His Written Word is the bond that keeps us together. 

`Read John 17:17–21. Here Jesus speaks about unity as a distinguishing mark of Christian discipleship. According to John 17:17, what is the basis for this unity?`

The Word of God is truth (John 17:17, Ps. 119:160). The unity of the church is the work of the Spirit with and through the Written Word of God. The Holy Spirit will never lead us to doubt, criticize, go beyond, or fall short of Bible teaching. Instead, He makes us appreciate the divine authority of Scripture. The Holy Spirit never draws us away from the Written Word, any more than from the Living Word. Instead, He keeps us in constant, conscious, and willing submission to both. The Bible is the foundational source for any theological unity worldwide. Were we to lessen or weaken our implicit belief in the Bible as God’s Word of truth to us, the unity of the church would be destroyed. 

`How much time do you spend in the Word? More important, how can you learn to submit to its teachings?`