---
title:  The Holy Spirit Unites the Church in Mission and Service
date:   02/03/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit Unites the Church in Mission and Service

`Read Acts 2:4–11, 16–21. What was the result of the Holy Spirit’s being poured out on the New Testament believers?`

The Holy Spirit was responsible for the most powerful missionary outreach that history had witnessed to that point. God can do more through a small group that is united in their devotion to Him than He can through a large group divided in their loyalties. But God can do even greater things when we all have devoted our lives and our energies, our talents and our resources, to Him. 

Out of the unity in life and mission of the believers grew the New Testament church. A small and timid group of believers was changed into a powerful troop that became an effective tool that reached people from many different cultures and languages. They were united in proclaiming “the mighty deeds of God” (Acts 2:11, NASB). The same God who was active in New Testament times will continue to be active at the end of time, when the work needs to be finished before He comes again.

`Read Acts 2:42–47. In what other things were the New Testament believers united?` 

The Pentecost mission enterprise was accompanied by a number of other factors where the early church stood united. They were united in Bible study and continually devoted themselves to the apostles’ teachings (Acts 2:42). They were united in fellowship and the breaking of bread, possibly a reference to united worship (Acts 2:42). They were united in prayer (Acts 2:42) and in praising God (Acts 2:47). They were united in serving those in need when they freely shared what they possessed and had all things in common (Acts 2:44, 45). United Bible study and fellowship will result in the desire to share the good news with others and to help others in very practical ways. The Holy Spirit will open our eyes to the needs of those around us. 

`What activities in your local church help to reveal the unity of your church? What more could be done?`
