---
title:  Opposing Slavery
date:   02/03/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 14**

**Opposing Slavery**

Like many believers before who obeyed their governments so long as they did not conflict with God’s precepts, early Adventists heartily supported the U.S. government and its laws on nearly every front except slavery. Many articles in Adventist publications stated as much, one prime example being “The Nation,” which was published on August 12, 1862 in the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald and featured editor James White: “With the exception of those enactments pressed upon it [the U.S. government] by the slave power, its laws are good” (ARSH, vol. 20). Adventists were staunch defenders of abolitionism even when more than ninety percent of the U.S. population viewed it as extreme. Adventist publications consistently opposed slavery causing our publications to be forbidden in the slave-owning South.

It’s clear from church leaders’ letters that they wanted to present a united front on this important issue. As such, Adventists who supported slavery were firmly disfellowshipped. Ellen White warned in a letter that unless the recipient changed his position, “it will be the duty of God’s people to publicly withdraw their sympathy and fellowship from you, in order to save the impression which must go out in regard to us as a people. We must let it be known that we have no such ones in our fellowship, that we will not walk with them in church capacity” (_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1_ [1855], 359). Adventists felt so strongly that the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald released an article on June 13, 1854 that challenged the nation to either abolish slavery or amend the Declaration of Independence: “If this nation would not be the most hypocritical nation on the face of the earth, it should amend this declaration thus: All white men are created free and equal etc.” (ARSH, vol. 5). This week, we’ll unpack the biblical prophecies that made it impossible for Adventists to be apathetic toward slavery.

### inScribe

Write out Revelation 14 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 6–8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._