---
title:  The First Angel
date:   03/03/2024
---

### inGest

The three angels’ messages of Revelation 14:6–12, which comprise God’s final warning to the world, have always held great importance for the Seventh-day Adventist Church. The first two messages in particular provided a strong moral imperative to stand against slavery. We’ll focus on the first for now and look at the second later this week.

The first angel’s message begins with the command to “fear God” (v. 7). Even a quick study of the Bible shows how a person who fears God will never be able to oppress or take advantage of a fellow human being. The fear of God leads a true believer to treat others kindly, even when they could easily abuse or cheat them. For instance, we are to show special regard for the disabled and elderly: “You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind, but shall fear your God: I am the Lord.... You shall rise before the gray headed and honor the presence of an old man, and fear your God: I am the Lord” (Lev. 19:14, 32).

Fearing God requires us to oppose and combat all forms of oppression (Lev. 25:17). There is no fear of God where there is oppression, and there is no oppression where there is fear of God. Leviticus 25 discusses the year of Jubilee, which was to take place every fifty years (v. 10). On that year’s Day of Atonement, Israel was to “proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants” (v. 10). We usually associate the Day of Atonement with judgment, but it also includes the promise of liberty. Our proclamations of God’s impending judgment should not be warnings alone; they should declare liberty as well.

The first angel’s message concludes with an invitation to “worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (Rev. 14:7). Enslaved people usually do not have the freedom to even hear the message, let alone gain an education so they can study the Bible for themselves, and this invitation for all people to worship the Creator God threatens those who gain power by oppressing others. The slaves in America had to gain freedom before they could assemble for worship and rest on the Sabbath day in accordance with the commandments. Opposing slavery was a necessary part of early Adventists proclaiming the three angels’ message. The three angels’ work will remain incomplete until the messages reach the entire world—“every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6). This divine mandate supersedes every human law that seeks to prohibit certain groups of people from hearing the message. Today, we must actively seek the autonomy and resources that personal Bible study necessitates for those who cannot attain them on their own, much as the early Seventh-day Adventists did.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What does it mean to fear God?`

`What are some people groups in today’s world that need help gaining autonomy? How can we help them?`