---
title:  Slavery in the Old Testament
date:   04/03/2024
---

### inTerpret

Slavery in the Old Testament was vastly different from slavery in more recent history. The two systems have very little in common. Most slavery in the Old Testament would be better called indentured servitude since it acted as a safety net for people in dire financial situations.

Strict laws protected all slaves’ dignity and safety in the Old Testament. If an owner abused a slave so that they knocked out a tooth or ruined an eye, the slave was to be immediately set free for the sake of their injury (Exod. 21:26, 27), and an owner who killed a slave was to be put to death (vv. 12, 20). Communities were commanded to protect the life, property, and liberty of any slaves who escaped their master. Maltreatment in any form toward escaped slaves was not tolerated (Deut. 23:15, 16). Knowing that their country protected any slave who chose to escape would have been a major motivation for owners to take care in how they treated their slaves.

There was also a time limit on how long one could be a slave; they were to be released every seven years or on the year of Jubilee (Exod. 21:2; Lev. 25:10). Failure to release slaves at the appointed time resulted in covenant curses from God (Jer. 34:12–17). Some chose to remain permanent slaves. They had to appear before a judge to make sure they were not being forced, and the decision was publicly displayed by having the slave’s ear pierced with an awl. It might seem a bit primitive to a modern audience to puncture a slave’s ear as a public symbol of their servitude, but it was the best way they had of ensuring that the community could easily see that the decision had been ratified by a judge and the master of the house was not taking advantage of the person.

A modern reader may also wonder why anyone would choose to be a permanent slave. Well, to put it simply, slaves in the Bible often found a sense of belonging in the family they served. Though hired servants and strangers were not permitted to share the intimate Passover meal with the family, slaves were (Exod. 12:44, 45). Similarly, hired servants working for Levites could not partake of the holy meals of the sanctuary, but a slave in a Levite’s house ate the same holy offerings that the rest of the family shared (Lev 22:10, 11). A slave voluntarily chose to become a permanent slave when they felt loved by the family and saw that this was the best way for them to provide for their needs (Exod. 21:5).

If America had decided to follow the Old Testament slavery laws, it would have eradicated their entire system of slavery and destroyed the parts of the economy that depended on the system being cruel. Christian scholars and pastors who used slavery from the Old Testament to defend the extremely inhumane slavery in America were doing so completely disingenuously.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do the Old Testament laws about slavery further demonstrate God’s incredible love?`