---
title:  The Second Angel
date:   06/03/2024
---

### inVite

Jesus is the only One who can properly diagnose people’s spiritual condition (Rev. 3:14). Because He sent the second angel of Revelation 14, we can trust the warning that Babylon has fallen and the earth has become intoxicated with her wine (v. 8). Revelation 17 and 18 expound on the symbols in that verse, identifying Babylon as a harlot woman who has harlot daughters (Rev. 17:5). This unfaithful woman represents an unfaithful church (Rev. 17:1–5; 2 Cor. 11:2) from which many evils arose.

There’s a reason the unfaithful church in the New Testament and the city of Babylon in the Old Testament share the same name: they are parallels. The best way to understand the characteristics of prophetic Babylon is therefore to examine the characteristics of the Old Testament city. Daniel 4 records the advice the prophet Daniel gave King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon regarding the city’s spiritual depravity: “Break off your sins by being righteous, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the poor. Perhaps there may be a lengthening of your prosperity” (v. 27). If Old Testament Babylon struggled with how they treated the poor, we can expect prophetic Babylon to stumble over the same issue. The institution of slavery fits into this problem, for it’s one of the surest and cruelest ways to force people into perpetual poverty. The solution for both historic and prophetic Babylon’s corruption involves the act of showing mercy to all the poor, including the enslaved. Adventist pioneers knew this and, referencing Revelation 18:11–13, taught that making merchandise of the “bodies and souls of men” was among Babylon’s vilest sins. The call to leave Babylon in verse 4 therefore necessitates a complete separation from and ardent opposition of the evil practice of slavery.

Adventist publications in the 1850s expressed an even deeper concern for what was happening in American churches than what was happening in the U.S. government. A quote from the March 6, 1855 edition of the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald says, “The right to hold human beings in bondage and to buy and sell them, is now made out in the most confident manner from the Old and New Testaments, by the leading doctors of divinity of most denominations.... The professed church to a fearful extent, is the right arm of the slave power, and our own nation is a perfect illustration on the subject of slavery, of a nation drunken with the wine of Babylon. That most infamous law, ‘the fugitive slave bill,’ was vindicated by our most distinguished doctors of divinity as a righteous measure” (ARSH, vol. 6). This severely misguided support from American Christianity is very disappointing, especially in comparison with the successful movement a few decades before to overthrow slavery in England. Slavery in the U.S. may well have been crushed sooner were it not for the Christian churches that protected it.

Early Adventists were unable to study these prophecies without speaking out for human dignity and liberty. In the three angels’ messages, Adventists heard a call to return to true Christianity, doctrinally and practically.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`Why did Jesus send the second angel to warn about the sins of Babylon before His return (Rev. 14:8, 14)?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`