---
title:  Free To Rest
date:  14/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Mark 2:1–12; 1 Kings 18; 1 Kings 19:1–8; Psalm 34:18; Matthew 5:1–3; Psalm 73:26.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The LORD is my light, and he saves me. Why should I fear anyone? The LORD is my place of safety. Why should I be afraid?” (Psalm 27:1, NIrV).

JESUS met many sick and dying people during His time on earth. Crowds of people came to Jesus for healing and rest from pain. Jesus always healed them and gave them rest.

Sometimes Jesus just said a word to heal someone fully. Or Jesus touched a sick person and healed him or her in an instant. Other times Jesus sent the sick person away. Then the person was healed on the way home. Jesus healed men, women, and children, Jews, non-Jews, and rich people. He also healed poor people nobody cared about. The worst diseases and problems were no match for Jesus. He healed people born blind. He healed lepers. Lepers were people with an awful skin disease. In the time of Jesus, lepers lived far away from healthy people. When lepers came into a town, they cried, “Not clean! Not clean!” to warn people to stay away. Jesus also healed the only disease worse than leprosy at that time: death.

This week, we look at two different examples of healing: (1) a man too sick to come to Jesus on his own. And (2) a man who looks healthy but needs healing.

We also will ask, “What happens when God does not answer our prayers for healing the way we expect?” How do we find rest then?