---
title:  Healing Rest 
date:  15/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When we are sick, we need rest more than ever. We need to rest our bodies so that we can fully heal.

We often need to rest our minds, too. Sometimes we get sick with something that does not put our life in danger. Maybe we have a cold or a bad headache. We lie in bed and try not to think about all the things we should be doing but cannot do.

Sometimes we are sick with something that does put our life in danger. Often, we lie awake and worry about the medical tests. We may start to wonder, “Why is this happening?” Are we suffering because of our bad habits and unhealthy lifestyle? Was it the drugs we took 20 years ago? Are we sick because of the extra weight we put on our bodies a few years ago? Or is God punishing us for that secret sin we do that no one else knows about?

`Read Mark 2:1–4. What is happening in these verses?`

The man in this story cannot move his arms or legs. In The Desire of Ages, pages 267–271, we learn why. The man did some wrong things in his past that he is ashamed about. His sins caused his disease. The doctors cannot cure him.

We often blame ourselves and the things we did in the past for the bad things that happen in our lives now. But our blaming ourselves or other people does not heal us or make us whole.

The plan of God for our lives never included pain, disease, or suffering. Sickness came to this planet because of sin. God gives us important health rules to follow. These rules can help us to enjoy a better life now.

The good news is that God can give us rest if we are sick or healthy. God can give us rest even if we caused our own sickness. God can give us rest even if our parents did not take good care of us when we were children. God can give us rest even if we were born with something that medical science or doctors cannot fix. God knows how to give us rest.

`When someone gets sick, do not start blaming anyone or anything for the sickness. At the same time, why can our understanding the cause of the sickness often help us as we seek to get better?`