---
title:  Healing The Cause 
date:  16/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The man who cannot move his arms or legs has four friends. These four friends rip open the rooftop of the house where Jesus visits. Then the four men lower their sick friend down to Jesus. Will Jesus heal this awful sinner? Will He say the word to send the sickness away?

`How does Jesus heal the man? What is the first thing Jesus does for him? For the answers, read Mark 2:5–12.`

We often do not know we are sick until our bodies show signs of disease. Many times, we think these signs are the same as the sickness itself. We think if we get rid of the signs, we will be healed. Jesus has a different way of looking at disease. He knows the real cause for all suffering. So, He wants to heal the cause first.

In the story about the man who cannot move his arms or legs, Jesus does not heal the signs of the disease right away. Jesus first heals the heart. The man feels his guilt deeply. The guilt crushes him. The man feels his separation from God more deeply than he feels his disease. When a person rests in God, he or she can put up with any amount of pain or suffering. So, Jesus goes to the “root” of the disease and offers the man forgiveness first.

The religious leaders are surprised when Jesus forgives the man. Only God can forgive sins. Who does Jesus think He is? Jesus hears the angry questions in their hearts. In answer, Jesus asks the leaders a question.

`Read Mark 2:8, 9. What question does Jesus ask the religious leaders? What problem in their hearts does Jesus really want them to see?`

We cannot see forgiveness. But when we look at the cross, we see how much forgiveness cost. Forgiveness cost God the life of His Son. Jesus shows that forgiveness is real when He chooses to heal the sick man.

God wants to heal us first on the inside, too. Then sometimes He may choose to heal our bodies. Other times, we may have to wait until Jesus comes back. Our Savior wants us to rest in His love and forgiveness until that time.

`How can we find rest and peace when God does not answer our prayers for healing as we expect?`