---
title:  Running Away 
date:  17/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Do you know what the number one sickness is worldwide? A sad heart and mind. Being sad is not a sin. A sad heart does not mean that a person has no faith or does not trust in God.

Sometimes our being sad can happen slowly. Sometimes we can become sad fast after something awful happens. That is just what happened to Elijah after his experience on Mount Carmel. The story about Elijah shows us how someone can feel down and tired very fast after something big happens in our lives.

`In 1 Kings 18, Elijah has just seen a big miracle. God sends fire from heaven. God also answers the prayer of Elijah for rain after there was no rain for three years. Then Jezebel makes a threat against Elijah. Why does Elijah run from Jezebel after all the big miracles he sees? For the answers, read 1 Kings 19:1–5.`

The last 24 hours have been very hard and tiring for Elijah. This difficult experience and the threat from Jezebel cause Elijah to feel very sad. Let us also remember that Elijah is there when the 850 messengers from Baal are killed (1 Kings 18:40). Elijah may have even killed some of them himself. For sure, this experience can cause a lot of stress for the person who must watch, or even worse, take part in it.

So, Elijah starts to run. He tries to get away. Sometimes we are the same as Elijah. We run when things get bad. We may run to the refrigerator. Then we try to make ourselves happy by eating. Sometimes we try to sleep our problems away. Sometimes we look for someone new to love. Or a new job or a new place to live. Sometimes we work more than we should. Some people use medicine to try to dull the pain they feel. We do all these things to try to run away from the problems that are stealing our rest from our hearts. In the end, all these only hide the real problem. They do not solve it. Often, the things we do to run from our problems only make our problems worse.