---
title:  Too Tired To Run 
date:  18/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Elijah is too tired to run anymore. So, he prays. His prayer is different from the one he prayed on Mount Carmel (1 Kings 18:36, 37) in front of the religious leaders, the messengers of Baal, the members of the government, and the people. This prayer is simple, short, and without hope.

`In 1 Kings 19:4, Elijah says that he is no better than his past family members. What is he talking about?`

When Elijah stops running, he feels guilt. Then he sees that his running away has caused Israel to lose a wonderful chance to change their lives for the better. Elijah has let people down who needed him. He is helpless to do anything about it. He sees himself as he really is.

We all have times in our life the same as Elijah. Seeing yourself as you really are is a painful experience. So, we should be thankful for the Bible promise in Philippians 3:9. Our faith in Jesus will make us right with God. When we are in Jesus, God will see us as He sees Jesus. This promise gives us all the hope we ever need.

At the same time, we need to be honest that life is hard. A sad heart can fill us with hate for ourselves. Sometimes we start to think that dying is the only way out.

Elijah feels this way. His troubles are a heavy load. They are too much for him to carry in his heart on his own. That is why he says, “ ‘I have had enough, LORD! Take my life. I am no better than my ancestors [family members from the past]’ ” (1 Kings 19:4, ERV).

The good news is that God does not get angry at Elijah. God understands better than we do what we are up against when we fight against the sad feelings in our hearts.

“Maybe you have no proof right now that the Savior is looking at you in love. But He is. You may not feel His touch. But His hand is on you in love and tender pity.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 97, adapted.

God knows we are not strong enough on our own (1 Kings 19:7) to do what He asks. But sometimes God must wait for us to stop running before He can help us.

`Read Psalm 34:18; Matthew 5:1–3; Psalm 73:26; and Isaiah 53:4–6. What hope and comfort do these verses give you?`