---
title:  Rest And More 
date:  19/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God knows Elijah is tired from running. God also knows that Elijah feels more than just worn out in his body. The heart of Elijah needs to rest, too. Elijah is carrying a heavy load of guilt. God forgives Elijah and gives him rest. Finally, Elijah can really sleep and feel refreshed.

Maybe we think this should be the end of the story. But it is not. The rest God gives us is more than just sleep for our tired bodies. The rest God gives us is healing for our hearts. God does not rush this healing.

`Where is Elijah going now? Read 1 Kings 19:5–8 for the answer.`

After Elijah rests, what does he do? He starts running again! But this time, God is in charge of where Elijah runs. God understands that we live on an earth filled with sin. So, life can cause us to feel sad. A sad heart can cause us to run away from all our troubles. But God wants to help us run in the right direction. He wants us to run to Him. When we run to God, He will teach us to obey His “quiet, gentle voice” (1 Kings 19:12, ERV). This voice is His voice talking to our hearts. When we obey the voice of God, we will find rest.

Elijah lays under a broom tree and wants to die. He feels his best days are over. Elijah has no energy to get up and make the trip to meet God. So, God gives Elijah the energy he needs. God also can give us a better tomorrow.

`What surprise does God have planned for Elijah? For the answer, read 1 Kings 19:15, 16 and 1 Kings 2:11.`

God knows that better days are ahead for Elijah. Healing will come for Elijah when he learns to live by the rules of God and to accept His rest. Elijah still has some work on earth to do for God. God also knows that Elijah will call fire down from heaven again (2 Kings 1:10). Elijah will not die with no hope under a broom tree. He will ride in a war cart made of fire. This flying cart will take him to heaven where he will rest with God forever.

`How does the story about Elijah teach you to rest in God even when you feel your worst? How does this story teach you not to give up hope?`