---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Life is always changing. These changes make us happy or very sad. But life changes in our experience have no power to change the way God feels about us. God does not change. He is the same today as He was yesterday. He will be the same tomorrow. God asks us to trust fully in his love and not to doubt Him.”—Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, page 120, adapted.

“Continue to look to Jesus. Offer up silent prayers of faith to Him from your heart. Hold onto His strength. Maybe you do not have any proof He hears your prayers. Go forward anyway. Behave as if every payer you offer Him reaches the throne of God and that God answers each one. His promises never fail. Go forward. Sing songs to God in your heart. Sing even when you are sad and weighed down. I tell you as someone who knows from experience: light from God will come. Joy will be ours. The fog and the clouds will disappear. We will pass from the shadows and the dark into the sunshine that is a word picture for God Himself.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Message, book 2, pages 242, 243, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Often, we have a hard time knowing how to help people who feel very sad in heart and mind. What can your church learn to do to help people who suffer from this disease?`

`We often try hard to be open and honest with God. Read some of the psalms to see how the Bible writers shared their feelings with God. How can we encourage members in our local churches to be this honest with God and each other?`

`Prayer is often hard when we feel very sad. Talk about the need for us to pray for people who cannot pray to God on their own.`

`Why must we remember that faith is not feeling? Maybe we are feeling very sad, afraid, worried, or that we have no hope. These feelings do not mean that we have no faith or trust in God. Why must we remember that showing faith in God during our hard times is so important?`

`Many of us suffer from disease caused by our poor lifestyle choices in the past. What hope do you get from the story in Mark 2 about the man who cannot move his arms or legs?`