---
title:  No More Sad Hearts For The Ones Who Suffered 
date:  24/01/2021
---

`Isaiah 9:1, NIrV, ICB, and NLV, starts with the word “ ‘but.’ ” When a sentence starts with “but,” we see that something new or different is about to happen. What change does Isaiah 9:1 show us? How is the change different from what we see in Isaiah 8?`

Isaiah 8:21, 22 show us what happens to people who turn from God to evil spirits. They lose all hope. The Lord says, “ ‘They will look around them at their land. And they will see only trouble and darkness and awful gloom [no hope]. And they will be forced into the darkness’ ” (Isaiah 8:22, ICB). But a time will come when “ ‘there will be no more heavy hearts for those [people in Galilee] who were suffering’ ” (Isaiah 9:1, NLV). God chooses the people in Galilee above all His people for a special blessing. Isaiah 9:2, NIrV, tells us what this special blessing is: “ ‘The people who are now living in darkness will see a great [surprising and powerful] light.’ ” The light is a word picture for Jesus. Then God “ ‘will make the nation [Israel] grow’ ” (Isaiah 9:3, ERV). That will happen because God “will take away the rod that the enemy used to punish [His] people’ ” (Isaiah 9:4, ERV).

Why does Isaiah name Galilee? Because Galilee was one of the first parts of land that Israel lost in war. When Ahaz asked Tiglath-pileser the Third for help, Tiglath-pileser took Galilee and the Transjordan area. Tiglath-pileser made these areas part of his kingdom (2 Kings 15:29). He also carried away some of the people who lived there. So, Isaiah’s message is: the first lands lost to Assyria will be the first lands that God makes free.

`What does God use to make His people free? For the answer, read Isaiah 9:6, 7. When does God make the special message in Isaiah 9:1–5 happen? And how does He do that? Also read Matthew 4:12–25.`

Where does Jesus start His work for God on earth? In Galilee, of course! Jesus announces the Good News about God’s kingdom in Galilee. He heals the sick. He makes people free who are controlled by demons (Matthew 4:24).

Jesus’ work is a perfect example of how Old Testament happenings and promises show us the things that will happen in New Testament times.