---
title:  A Child For Us 
date:  25/01/2021
---

Now we will read about another special child that will be born. This is the third special child that Isaiah talks about. As we saw last week, Isaiah told us about Immanuel and Maher-shalal-hash-baz.

`What is special about the Child in Isaiah 9:6, 7?`

Do you see that this Child has several names? These names show us many things about Him. In Bible times, kings and gods had many names to show that they were powerful.

The Child that Isaiah talks about “ ‘will be Wonderful’” (Isaiah 9:6, ERV). In the same way, the Angel of the LORD tells Samson’s father that His name is “ ‘too wonderful for you to understand’ ” (Judges 13:18, ICB. In both verses, the word written as “wonderful” comes from the same Hebrew word.) Then the Angel of the LORD goes up to heaven in the fire on the altar where Manoah burns animal offerings to God. In this way, the Angel of the LORD shows us that He will offer Himself for our sins more than 1,000 years later.

The special Child is also from heaven. He is named “ ‘Powerful God’ ” and the “Father Who Lives Forever’ ” (Isaiah 9:6, ERV). Luke tells us that Jesus is the future “son of Adam,” who is “the son of God” (Luke 3:38, ERV).

This special Child that Isaiah talks about is also a King from the line of David. This King will have an everlasting kingdom. He will be a King of peace.

`Look at all these things about this special Child. Who is the only Person that this Child can be? For the answer, read Luke 2:8–14.`

Some people have tried to say that this special Child is King Hezekiah. But the Bible shows us that this Child is more than an ordinary human. Only one person fits: Jesus Christ. He is the Son of God, who came to us from heaven. He is the One who made this earth and every good thing in it (John 1:1–3, 14; Colossians 1:5–17; Colossians 2:9; Hebrews 1:2). Jesus is born to us. He comes to save us and give us peace. He is with us always (Matthew 28:18–20). He continued to be God when He came to us. At the same time, He also became human. That is why He knows how weak we really are. He understands our fight against sin.