---
title:  The Rod Of God’s Anger 
date:  26/01/2021
---

Isaiah 9:8–10:34 shows us that God will make His people free one day from their enemies. His people are sad because they trusted evil spirits for advice. Then the Assyrian army beat God’s people in war and took away many people from Israel as prisoners. But Isaiah promises that the time will come when God will “ ‘take away the rod that the enemy used to punish your people, as you did when you defeated [beat] Midian’ ” (Isaiah 9:4, ERV).

`Read about the sufferings of God’s people in Isaiah 9:8–10:34. Compare the curses in Leviticus 26:14–39. Why does God punish His people a little bit at a time, and not all at one time? What does this show us about God and His plan for our lives?`

If God wants to destroy His people, He can let the Assyrians beat them right away. But God is patient. He “doesn’t want anyone to be lost. He wants everyone to change their ways and stop sinning” (2 Peter 3:9, ERV). God lets Israel and Judah see that bad things happen because of their poor choices. God wants His people to understand that what they do is wrong. God also wants His people to have a chance to make better decisions. But God’s people continue to do evil. They turn their hearts against God and His special messengers. So, God stops protecting His people. But they keep fighting against God. This keeps happening until God cannot do anything more to save His people.

`Read again Isaiah 9:8–10:34. As we see in these verses, what sins are the people guilty of doing? Who do they sin against? Who is guilty?`

What we see here is the power of free will or choice. God made humans free. He had to. If we are not free, we cannot really love Him. When you have free will, you can choose to sin. When we sin, God chooses to bring us back to Himself again. He does this by showing us His love. Because He loves us, He often does not protect us from our wrong decisions. He lets us feel the pain, suffering, and fear that come from our bad choices. Then we will see what our turning away from Him leads us to. Even so, many people do not turn away from sin and come back to God. Free will is a wonderful gift. But we must not use it in the wrong way.