---
title:  'Jesus: The Root And The Branch '
date:  27/01/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 11:1. King David’s family is named “ ‘Jesse’s family’ ” in Isaiah 11:1 (NIrV). Isaiah says that the family of Jesse is the same as a tree that has been cut down. A new little tree will grow out of the dead tree. Who is the “new little tree” a word picture for? (Read Zechariah 3:8 and Zechariah 6:12 for the answer.)`

The “ ‘stump [the part of the tree left in the ground after the tree is cut down] of Jesse’ ” is a word picture. Jesse is the name of the father of King David. So, the stump shows us that the future sons of King David will lose power (Daniel 4:10–17, 20–26). But “ ‘a small tree’ ” (Isaiah 11:1, ERV) or a “ ‘branch’ ” (Isaiah 11:1, ERV) will grow from the dead stump. This word picture shows us that a new king will come from the family of David.

`This new king is named “ ‘the branch’ ” (Isaiah 11:1, ERV). He is also named “ ‘the Root of Jesse’ ” (Isaiah 11:10, NIrV). How can the new king be the same as a branch from the family tree of Jesse if the new king is also the same as a root that started the tree?! How can this saying make any sense? (For the answer, read Revelation 22:16.)`

The only answer that makes sense is Jesus Christ. He is the “ ‘beginning of David and his family’ ” (Revelation 22:16, NLV) or the “ ‘Root and the Son of David’ ” (Revelation 22:16, NIrV). Jesus is a future son of David (Luke 3:23–31). Jesus also comes from Adam, who is the “son of God” (Luke 3:38, KJV). How is Adam the son of God? Jesus made Him (read John 1:1–3, 14). So, Jesus is both the early father of David and the future son of David too!

`What does the new King do to solve the problem of sin and evil? For the answer, read Isaiah 11.`

The new King punishes evil people. He brings peace. The new King will make His people free. He will bring them back to live in Israel and Judah (compare Isaiah 10:20–22). He will rule both lands again the same as King David did. But the new King will be more powerful than David. The new King will bring peace to all living things. Then animals will not eat other animals. They will live together in peace (Isaiah 11:6–9).