---
title:  Show Your Love To Me 
date:  28/01/2021
---

Isaiah 12 is a short song of praise to God. The song praises God for His mercy and His strong comfort. The song is sung by a member of Israel after God brings the Jews back to their land. The singer compares God’s promise of making His people free to the time when God saved His people from slavery in Egypt (read Isaiah 11:16). The song is much the same as the song that Moses and the Israelites sang when God saved them from Pharaoh’s army at the Red Sea (read Exodus 15).

`Compare this song in Isaiah 12 to the song of Moses and the Lamb in Revelation 15:2–4. What are both songs praising God for?`

Isaiah 12:2 hints that the coming Savior is Jesus. The verse says: “ ‘ “God is the one who saves me” ’ ” (Isaiah 12:2, ERV). The name of Jesus means that “ ‘He will save his people from their sins’ ” (Matthew 1:21, ERV).

`Why is the name of Jesus important? What does it show us that He will do?`

The Lord saves us (Isaiah 12:2). He also is the way that we are saved. Jesus is the Holy One of Israel. He is with us (Isaiah 12:6). That promise means everything to us. Think about it: God is with us! Wow! Jesus worked miracles. He also became one when He “became a man” (John 1:14, ERV) and “made his home with us” (John 1:14, NIrV). He died for our sins. He also became sin for us (2 Corinthians 5:21). Jesus makes peace. He also is our peace (Ephesians 2:14).

Now we understand why Isaiah says that the future king from the family of Jesse is so special. “He will be like [the same as] a banner [flag] that brings nations [people groups] together” (Isaiah 11:10, NIrV). When Jesus is nailed to the cross, He brings all people to Himself (John 12:32, 33)! A small group shall come back to the “Mighty God” (Isaiah 10:21, NIrV). Our God is the Child born for us. He is the “Prince of Peace” (Isaiah 9:6, KJV)!

`Read Romans 3:24. Our works will never be good enough to save us. What does it mean that Jesus is the way that we are saved? How does this Bible truth give you hope?`