---
title:  Further Thought
date:  29/01/2021
---

“The human father wants with all his heart everything good for his son. The father looks into the face of his little child. The father’s heart fills with fear when he thinks about all the evil that can happen in this life. He wants to protect his child from Satan’s power. The father wants to keep his son away from sin and fighting. God felt all these things that a father feels. Only more. He gave His only Son to make sure that our little ones can be saved.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 49, adapted.

“Jesus Himself agrees to do the work that is necessary to save humans. No angel or man can do this important work. The Son of Man is the only one who can die on the cross. Only God can do what is necessary to save us. Jesus agrees to connect Himself with sinners. They are not loyal to God. Jesus agrees to become human, the same as we are. He gives His own blood. He becomes an offering for sin. In heaven, God measured the guilt of humans. The anger of God at sin is very deep. God sees that it will cost a lot to save humans. But Jesus announces His decision. He will be responsible for doing everything necessary to give hope to sinners.”—Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, March 5, 1896.

**Discussion question**:

`1.	As we saw in Isaiah 11, the Lord showed us both comings of Jesus in one picture. This may help explain why some of the Jews do not accept Jesus at His first coming. They expect Jesus to do the things that will happen only at the Second Coming. How does their mistake help us see why it is important that we understand Bible teaching about what will happen at the Second Coming? How can false ideas about Jesus’ second coming cause people to believe Satan’s end-time lies? (For the answer, read Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chapter 39.)`

**Summary**: The name Isaiah means “The saving plan of the Lord.” In the time of Isaiah, God promises to save His people from the dark times ahead. The people turned away from God. So, their sins will bring awful punishments in the future. But God promises His people hope. The hope is Jesus. His name means “The Lord is the Way that we are saved.”