---
title:  The Influence of Leaders
date:  22/12/2019
---

All through the Bible, we can find examples of leadership, both good and bad, and sometimes even a mixture of both. Bad leaders, at times, have done some good things, while good leaders, at times, have done some bad things. After all, all leaders are human beings and, as such, are capable of both good and evil, of doing right and wrong. Who hasn’t experienced this reality in their own lives?

The problem, however, is that when you are a leader, you exert great influence, either for good or bad. It’s bad enough to be a negative influence in your own home or workplace or wherever your presence is felt. But when you are in a leadership position, be it spiritual, political, or both, the influence is greatly multiplied. How crucial then that in whatever your role, but especially as a leader, you reflect the principles and teachings of Scripture.

**Look up the following texts. What kind of examples of leadership do we find there? If good, explain why it was good. If bad, explain why it was bad.**

`Rehoboam (1 Kings 12:1–16)`

`Peter (Acts 15:7–11)`

`Josiah (2 Kings 23:1–10)`

`Deborah (Judg. 4:1–16)`

`Ahab (1 Kings 21:1–16)`

`Though just a smattering, what lessons can we take away from these stories about what makes good and bad leadership, and how can we apply what we learn to ourselves in whatever roles we are in?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

So gradual was Solomon’s apostasy that before he was aware of it; he had wandered far from God. Almost imperceptibly he began to trust less and less in divine guidance and blessing, and to put confidence in his own strength. Little by little he withheld from God that unswerving obedience which was to make Israel a peculiar people, and he conformed more and more closely to the customs of the surrounding nations. Yielding to the temptations incident to his success and his honored position, he forgot the Source of his prosperity. . . .

From being one of the greatest kings that ever wielded a scepter, Solomon became a profligate, the tool and slave of others. His character, once noble and manly, became enervated and effeminate. . . .

During these years of apostasy, the spiritual decline of Israel progressed steadily. How could it be otherwise when their king had united his interests with satanic agencies? Through these agencies the enemy worked to confuse the minds of the Israelites in regard to true and false worship, and they became an easy prey. . . . Their keen sense of the high, holy character of God was deadened. Refusing to follow in the path of obedience, they transferred their allegiance to the enemy of righteousness.—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 55, 58, 59.

For twenty years, the Israelites groaned under the yoke of the oppressor; then they turned from their idolatry, and with humiliation and repentance cried unto the Lord for deliverance. They did not cry in vain. There was dwelling in Israel a woman illustrious for her piety, and through her the Lord chose to deliver His people. Her name was Deborah. She was known as a prophetess, and in the absence of the usual magistrates, the people had sought to her for counsel and justice. 

The Lord communicated to Deborah His purpose to destroy the enemies of Israel, and bade her send for a man named Barak. . . . 

. . . He accepted the message from Deborah as the word of God, but he . . . refused to engage in such a doubtful undertaking unless Deborah would accompany him, and thus support his efforts by her influence and counsel.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 329. 

We all have an influence, and that influence is telling upon the destiny of others for their present and future good or for their eternal loss. . . .

When we come into close union and fellowship with Christ, our love and sympathy and our works of benevolence will reach down deeper and will widen and strengthen with exercise. The love and interest of Christ’s followers must be as broad as the world. Those who live merely for “me and mine” will fail of heaven. God calls upon [families] to cultivate love, to become . . . more sensitive to the griefs and trials of others.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, pp. 529, 530.