---
title:  DAVID, SOLOMON, AND THE KINGDOM
date:   31/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Some people say that David and Solomon were not real. They say that their kingdom was not as big as the Bible says it was. But if there is no David, then how can there be a Jerusalem? (2 Samuel 5:6–10). If there is no David, then how can there be a temple built by his son Solomon? (1 Kings 8:17–20). With no David, how can there be a future Savior? God promises that the Savior will be born to one of David’s future family members (Jeremiah 23:5, 6; Revelation 22:16). If David was not a real person, then we will need to write a new history for Israel that is different from the one in the Bible. So, we can see why Israel’s history in the Bible is important. This history gives Israel and the church its reason for being here on earth.

`Read 1 Samuel 17. How does God give Israel a big win in a war against their enemies? Who does God use to help Israel win? Where does their big victory happen?`

Do you see that 1 Samuel 17:1–3 tells us the exact name of the place where the war happens? Today this place is named Khirbet Qieyafa. Archaeologists went there and dug up a city named Shaaraim in Bible times. Shaaraim was built in the time of King Saul and David. Archaeologists are scientists who study the way people lived long ago to learn more about the past. Scientists found two gates at Khirbet Qieyafa. Most cities in Israel during Old Testament times had only one gate. So, the two gates help us know that this city that was dug up at modern Khirbet Qieyafa is Shaaraim. The Bible talks about this city in 1 Samuel 17:52. In the Hebrew, “Shaaraim” means “two gates.”

If this information is true, then they have discovered this Old Testament city for the first time. In 2008 and 2013, two objects were found with Hebrew writing on them. Many people believe that these two objects are the oldest Hebrew writing ever discovered! The second object has the name Eshbaal written on it. Eshbaal is the same name as one of King Saul’s sons (1 Chronicles 9:39).

In 1993, archaeologists dug up the ground at the northern city of Tel Dan. There, they found an object written by King Hazael of Damascus. Hazael records his victory over “the king of Israel” and a king who was from “David’s house.” “House” is a word picture for someone’s family in Old Testament times. The Bible also talks about David’s family in this way. So, this writing is powerful proof that David was a real person, just as the Bible says.

_If David was not a real person, then we will need to write a new history for Israel that is different from the one in the Bible._
