---
title:  ISAIAH, HEZEKIAH, AND SENNACHERIB
date:   01/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read the story in Isaiah 36:1–3 and Isaiah 37:14–38. In this story, a very big Assyrian army comes to fight against Judah. How does God save His people?`

In 701 b.c., Sennacherib fights against Judah. The record of the war is found in the Bible. Sennacherib himself writes about the war, too, in several ways. Sennacherib writes about it in his personal records. These records were discovered in Sennacherib’s capital city, Nineveh. In his records, Sennacherib brags: “I took 46 of Hezekiah’s towns and villages from him.” In Sennacherib’s palace at Nineveh, Sennacherib celebrates his win against the Jewish city of Lachish. Sennacherib had the walls of his palace painted with pictures of his victory.

In modern times, people went to the city of Lachish to dig for old things from the past. They found proof that Sennacherib burned Lachish. But Jerusalem was kept safe by a miracle. So, Sennacherib cannot brag about destroying Jerusalem at all. He can brag only about what he does to King Hezekiah: “I shut King Hezekiah in his city the same as a bird in a cage.” But we find no record in history about Sennacherib’s destroying Jerusalem or taking anyone from the city as his slaves.

It is true that Sennacherib’s army attacked Jerusalem. But the Bible shows us that the attack lasted only one day. Then the Angel of the Lord saves Jerusalem, just as Isaiah says He will. “So the Lord says this about the king of Assyria: ‘He will not come into this city or shoot an arrow here. He will not bring his shields up against this city or build up a hill of dirt to attack its walls. He will go back the way he came. He will not come into this city. The Lord says this! I will protect this city and save it. I will do this for myself and for my servant David’ ” (Isaiah 37:33–35, ERV).

It is interesting that Sennacherib’s palace did not have any pictures of Jerusalem on it. Only pictures of Lachish. That tells us that Sennacherib never beat Jerusalem. So, he can brag only about beating Lachish. The God of heaven shows us that He is stronger than the Assyrian gods. We see proof of God’s power when He saves His people from the Assyrian army. God sees how Assyria tries to take control of Judah. God hears the words of Hezekiah’s prayer. God acts in history to save His people.

_Sennacherib brags, “I shut King Hezekiah in his city the same as a bird in a cage.”_
