---
title:  DANIEL, NEBUCHADNEZZAR, AND BABYLON
date:   02/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

In July 2007, a teacher from the University of Vienna was working at the British Museum. He discovered a stone tablet with writing on it. The tablet came from the time of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. On the stone tablet, the teacher saw the name “Nebusarsekim.” This is the name of a Babylonian leader that we read about in Jeremiah 39:3. Nebusarsekim is one of many people who lived during the time of Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar.

`Read Daniel 1 and Daniel 5. What decision did Daniel make early in his life? Why was God able to use Daniel as His servant? God showed Daniel the future history of many countries. How has Daniel’s record of history changed the lives of many people worldwide?`

Daniel “decided not to eat the king’s food and wine because that would make him unclean [not clean]” (Daniel 1:8, ICB). Daniel wanted to stay loyal to God in what he ate and how he prayed. Daniel formed good habits when he was young. His good habits made him strong his whole life. Daniel had a clear mind. God gave Daniel wisdom and understanding. Both King Nebuchadnezzar and King Belshazzar saw that God blessed Daniel with wisdom. So, they gave him the most important jobs in the kingdom. More important, Daniel’s example caused King Nebuchadnezzar to accept God (Daniel 4:34–37).

Nebuchadnezzar was the son of Nabopolassar. Together, they built a wonderful city. There was no city like it during Old Testament times (Daniel 4:30). The city of Babylon was very big. It had more than 300 temples and a beautiful palace. The city had two walls around it. One wall was 12 feet thick. The other wall was 22 feet thick. There were eight gates in the walls. All the gates were named after important Babylonian gods. The most famous gate is the Ishtar gate. The Germans dug up part of the gate and rebuilt it in the Pergamom Museum in Berlin.

In Daniel 7:4, we see a picture of Babylon as a lion with eagle wings. The way that leads up to the Ishtar gate is covered with pictures of 120 lions. Someone who dug up the earth around Babylon found a picture of a lion jumping on a man. This picture stands outside the city of Babylon to this day. All these pictures show us that the lion is the perfect symbol for Babylon, just as the Bible shows us.

_The lion is the perfect symbol for Babylon, just as the Bible shows us._
