---
title:  JESUS IN HISTORY
date:   03/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about Jesus in Matthew 26:57–67; John 11:45–53; and John 18:29–31. Who was Caiaphas? What part did he have in Jesus’ death? Who was Pontius Pilate? What decision did he make about Jesus? How did Pilate’s decision make it possible for the Jewish leaders to do what they did to Jesus?`

Caiaphas was the top Jewish religious leader. He came up with the plan to kill Jesus. Josephus, a history writer, gives us some important information about Caiaphas. This information helps us to know who Caiaphas is. “Caiaphas also was named Joseph. At first, he was not allowed to be the top Jewish religious leader. That is because a man named Jonathan was chosen to be the next top religious leader. Jonathan was the son of Ananus. Ananus had been the top religious leader in the past.”—Flavius Josephus, Complete Works (Grand Rapids, MI: Kregel Publications, 1969), book 18, chapter 4, page 381, adapted.

In 1990, a family grave was discovered south of Jerusalem. 12 boxes filled with bones were in the grave. The coins and pots in the grave help us to know how old the grave is. The pots and coins were made in the middle of the first century a.d. The most expensive bone box has a name on it: “Joseph son of Caiaphas.” Many thinkers believe this name shows that the grave and the bone box belong to the Caiaphas that Josephus wrote about. This is the same Caiaphas who was the top Jewish religious leader at the time of Jesus’ death.

In 1961, someone found a stone with the name Pontius Pilate on it. Pontius Pilate was the governor of Judea during the time of the Roman King Tiberius. The stone was found in the theater at Caesarea Maritima. So, these examples of the coins, pots, and stone help us to see that the Bible shows us a true picture of history.

History writers who lived during the first 200 years after Jesus also talk about Jesus of Nazareth. Tacitus is one of them. He is a Roman writer of history. Tacitus writes about several Bible topics: (1) Jesus, (2) His death by Pontius Pilate during the time of Tiberius, and (3) early Christians in Rome. Pliny the Younger was a Roman governor. In a.d. 112–113, Pliny writes to the Roman King Trajan and asks him what he should do about the Christians. Pliny says that the Christians meet on a certain day before the sun comes up. Then the Christians sing hymns as to a god. These writings give us more proof that Jesus was a real person.

_Pliny wrote about Christians who sang hymns to their God, Jesus._
