---
title:  FAITH AND HISTORY
date:   04/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Our choices do not change only our lives. They change other people’s lives too. In the same way, many of God’s people during Old Testament times have had the power to change people’s lives. In Hebrews 11, we see how the heroes of faith changed the lives of many people.

**Read about the heroes of faith in Hebrews 11:1–40. What lessons can we learn from their lives?**

`Enoch`

`Noah`

`Abraham`

`Sarah`

`Joseph`

`Moses`

`Rahab`

`Samson`

Faith is not simply a belief in something or someone. Faith leads us to take action that can change history.

Noah acted on faith when he built the ark. He trusted in God more than experience and reason. It had never rained on the earth before the Flood. So, people’s experience and reason told them that a Flood could not happen. But Noah trusted God. He obeyed Him, and humans in the ark were saved from the Flood. The only reason there are people on the earth today is because Noah obeyed God. Abram left his home in Ur in Mesopotamia. He went out, not knowing where God led him. But Abram chose to act on God’s Word. Moses could have become the King of Egypt. But he chose to become a shepherd to lead God’s people to the Promised Land. He trusted God’s voice that talked to him from the burning bush. Rahab chose to believe that God could save her. So, she protected the two spies. Then she became part of the line of Jesus! Our choices can change the lives of many people, now and in the future!

_Rahab chose to believe that God could save her. So, she protected the two spies._
