---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   05/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Ellen G. White, “David and Goliath,” pages 643–648, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “Hezekiah,” pages 331–339; “Deliverance From Assyria,” pages 349–366, in Prophets and Kings; section 4.k., in “Methods of Bible Study,” which can be found at http://www.adventistbiblicalresearch.org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study.

“The Bible is the oldest and most complete history that humans have. This history came to us from God. God has kept this record of history safe since the beginning of time. Bible history helps us to understand what happened in the long-ago past. Scientists cannot see that far back on their own. Only the Bible shows us the Power that made the sky and the earth. Only the Bible shows us a true record of how different people groups got started. Only the Bible shows us a history of our race that is not spoiled by human pride or wrong views and feelings.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 173, adapted.

“If you know who God is and the Bible, then you will believe that the Bible came from God. We must not judge the Bible by human ideas about science. We must bring these ideas to the Bible and let the Bible judge these ideas as true or false. We must trust that God’s Word, the Bible, is truth. Truth never can disagree with itself. So when the teachings of science disagree with Bible truth, then these teachings are wrong.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 8, page 325, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Yes, it is good when science agrees with Bible history. But what happens when science does not agree with the Bible? What do we do then? Why must we depend on God’s Word, the Bible, for truth? Why must we give the Bible the final say about what is true, even if science does not agree?`

`2. Think about all the Bible prophecies that have come true. Bible prophecies are special messages from God that show us the future. Think about the kingdoms in Daniel 2 and Daniel 7. Parts of these prophecies have come true already. But some parts have not happened. Why can we trust the Lord that every part of His prophecies will come true?`

_Only the Bible shows us a true record of how different people groups got started._
