---
title: Trust The Bible
date: 3/2/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 9:1, 2. Daniel studies a Bible prophecy, or special message about time. This prophecy helps Daniel understand that something important will happen to his people. What Bible books is Daniel studying that help him?`

Daniel’s prayer shows us that he has studied very carefully the books of Moses and the prophets, or special messengers. Jeremiah’s book shows Daniel that God’s people will be prisoners in Babylon for 70 years (read Jeremiah 25:11, 12; Jeremiah 29:10). So, Daniel understands from reading Jeremiah that the time he lives in is important.

Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9 was in 539 b.c. In that year, the kingdom of Persia replaces Babylon as the top kingdom on the earth. So, almost 70 years have passed since Nebuchadnezzar beat Jerusalem and destroyed the temple. Jeremiah’s book says that God’s people will soon go home. Daniel trusts the Bible. Daniel knows that something big is about to happen to his people. Daniel believes that the Jews will go home soon.

Daniel’s study of the Bible also shows him something else. He sees that his people’s sins are very bad. God’s people broke their Special Agreement with God. God punished them by taking them away from their land to Babylon (Leviticus 26:14–45). Daniel’s understanding about what happened to Israel comes from his study of the Bible. His study causes him to pray to God to help Israel.

In these end times, we can learn an important lesson from Daniel. We need to study and live Bible truth now more than ever. Only the Bible can give us a clear understanding of what is happening on this earth, and why. Remember, the Bible shows us the story of the worldwide war between God and Satan. The Bible shows that God will destroy evil at the end of the war. Then He will start His everlasting kingdom. So, we need to study the Bible. The more we study, the more we will understand what is happening around us. We will understand better the work God gives us to do on earth. The Bible will help our hope grow stronger too.

We need to study and live Bible truth now more than ever.
