---
title: Daniel Asks God For Mercy
date: 3/2/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:3–19. Why does Daniel ask God for mercy?`

Let us look at some important ideas in Daniel’s prayer:

First, Daniel never asks God to explain why the Jews suffer. Daniel knows the reason. As we see, Daniel spends a lot of time in his prayer telling God the reason: “ ‘We have not obeyed the Lord our God. We have not obeyed the teachings he gave us through [by] his servants, the prophets [special messengers]’ ” (Daniel 9:10, ICB). At the end of Daniel 8, you will remember that Daniel wants to understand something. He does not understand the dream about the 2,300 days (read Daniel 8:27).

Second, Daniel prays for mercy. Daniel asks God to forgive His people. Yes, God’s people sinned and did evil. But that is why Daniel asks God to have mercy on Israel. Daniel’s prayer for mercy shows us the Good News about Jesus. We are sinners. There is nothing good in us. We cannot save ourselves. We need God’s mercy to save us. We have done nothing to earn God’s forgiveness or mercy. But we must ask God for this gift anyway. Without His mercy, we will not be saved.

`Read Daniel 9:18, 19. What other reason does Daniel give in these verses for why he wants God to answer his prayer?`

Third, Daniel also asks God to honor His holy Name. Daniel does not ask God for help for selfish reasons. Daniel wants God’s Name to be honored on the earth.

Without God’s mercy, we will not be saved.
