---
title: Praying For Other People
date: 3/3/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read part of Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:5–13. In his prayer, Daniel continues to say “we” have done wrong. So, he includes himself as a doer in the sins that brought God’s punishment on the Jews 70 years ago. Why do you think Daniel does that?`

Daniel’s prayer is an example of how we can pray for other people. The Bible is filled with many examples of these prayers. Our prayers for people move God’s heart. Our prayers can cause wonderful things to happen too. They can cause God to save His people from their enemies. Our prayers can move God’s heart to not punish His people too. Moses’ prayer helps God not to destroy His people after they sinned (Exodus 32:7–14; Numbers 14:10–25). Elijah’s prayer causes God to pour rain on the dry land after 3 1/2 years of no rain (1 Kings 18).

So, we should pray for family members, friends, and other people. Pray when you are in trouble too. God hears our prayers. He can help. Sometimes God may not answer our prayers right away. But we may be sure that God always remembers the things His children need (read James 5:16).

In his prayer, Daniel stands between God and the people. Daniel’s Bible study shows him that the Jews are filled with sin. They continue to break God’s law. They refuse to obey God’s warnings. So, Daniel prays for God to heal and forgive them. But Daniel also includes himself in the group who need God’s healing and forgiveness. In this way, Daniel shows us Jesus’ work to save us from sin (John 17). But there is one big difference between Daniel and Jesus. Jesus “never sinned” (Hebrews 4:15, ERV). So, Jesus does not need to confess personal sin as Daniel does. Jesus also does not need to ask for forgiveness (Hebrews 7:26, 27). At the same time, Jesus understands in a special way our experience. He understands our fight against sin: “Christ [Jesus] had no sin. But God made him become sin. God did this for us so that in Christ we could become right [holy; saved] with God” (2 Corinthians 5:21, ICB).

Our prayers for people move God’s heart.
