---
title:  The Savior’S Work
date:   04/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Daniel’s prayer for his people shows us that he is worried about two things: (1) Israel’s sins and (2) Jerusalem’s ruin. So, God answers these two problems. The Savior will save God’s people. Also, God’s temple will be made holy. The Savior will not only save the Jews. He will come to save everyone who believes in Him.

`What does the angel Gabriel say will happen in Daniel 9:21–27? What work will happen during the 70 weeks? Why can only Jesus do it?`

At the end of 70 weeks, the Savior will do six things.

(1) He will “stop people from turning against God” (Daniel 9:24, ICB). The words written as “turning against God” come from the Hebrew word **“pesha.”** **“Pesha”** shows us the sins that a weak person does against a stronger person (Proverbs 28:24 shows us an example). Ezekiel uses the word **“pesha”** to show us humans who fight against God (Ezekiel 2:3). Jesus’ death turns humans away from sin and back to God.

(2) Jesus will “put an end to sin” (Daniel 9:24, ICB). In Hebrew, the verb for “put” shows us that God forgives our sins. Yes, humans have not lived up to God’s law after Adam and Eve sinned. But Jesus helps us win the war against sin.

(3) Jesus will “take away evil” (Daniel 9:24, ICB; also read Colossians 1:19, 20). Only Jesus can do that.

(4) Jesus will “bring in goodness [life free from sin or guilt] that continues forever” (Daniel 9:24, ICB). Jesus took our place on the cross. His death makes us right with God. Only our faith in Jesus can give us this gift.

(5) Jesus will “make the vision [dream] and prophecy [special message] come true” (Daniel 9:24, ICB). The Old Testament is filled with many special messages and promises about the Savior’s work to save humans from sin. Jesus’ death on the cross made all these Bible promises true.

(6) “ ‘The Most Holy Room in the temple will be anointed [made holy]’ ” (Daniel 9:24, NIrV). This verse shows us the start of Jesus’ work to save us in heaven (Hebrews 8:1).

Jesus took our place on the cross.
