---
title:  The 2,300 Days
date:   5/3/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

You will remember that Daniel is surprised at the end of his dream about the 2,300 days. He cannot understand that part (Daniel 8:27). Ten years later, the angel Gabriel comes to help Daniel “understand” the dream (Daniel 9:23, KJV). Also, Gabriel explains that the Savior’s work will happen at the end of the 70 weeks. We must use the year-day rule in Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:5, 6 to understand how long the 70 weeks are in real years. Then we will see that the 70 weeks are really 490 years. When do the 490 years start? When King Artaxerxes gives the command for the Jews to rebuild Jerusalem. That happens in 457 b.c. (Ezra 7). The Bible shows us that the 70 weeks are “allowed” (Daniel 9:24, ERV) or “given” (NLV) by God to His people. What does that show us? It shows us that the 70 weeks, or 490 years, are part of a longer time message. They are part of the 2,300 years in Daniel 8. So, this information helps us to see that both the 2,300 years and the 490 years start at the same time. That is, they both start in 457 b.c.

The 70 weeks are divided into three parts: (1) 7 weeks, (2) 62 weeks, and (3) and the 70th week.

The seven weeks equal 49 real years. They show us the time when the Jews will rebuild Jerusalem. After these 7 weeks, there will be 62 weeks (or 434 real years). Then the Savior will come (Daniel 9:25). So, 483 years after Artaxerxes’s command, Jesus will be baptized in the year a.d. 27. Then God will pour His Spirit on Jesus to help Him do His work on earth during the 70th “week.”

During the 70th week, many important things happen: (1) “‘the chosen one [Jesus] will be killed’” (Daniel 9:26, ERV). This verse shows us Jesus’ death. (2) The Savior will “‘make an agreement with many people. That agreement will continue for one week’” (Daniel 9:27, ERV). This verse shows us Jesus’ special work on earth for the Jews. It also shows us the work Jesus’ followers do after He goes back to heaven. This work happens from a.d. 27 to 34. (3) “‘The offerings and sacrifices [gifts] will stop for a half of a week’”

(Daniel 9:27, ERV). Three and 1/2 years after Jesus is baptized, animal gifts are no longer needed in the temple. Why? Because Jesus offers Himself on the cross as the perfect gift for our sins. The last week of the 70-week time message ends in a.d. 34. At that time, Stephen is killed with stones. Then Jesus’ followers start to take the Good News to the non-Jews too.

The year-day rule helps us to see that the 70 weeks are 490 real years.
