---
title: Additional Thought
date: 3/7/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

FRIDAY—MARCH 6

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

Below is a chart. It shows the 70-week time message in Daniel 9:24–27. The chart helps us see how the 70 weeks (or 490 real years) connect with the 2,300 days (or 2,300 real years). We also can see that 70 weeks and the 2,300 days start at the same time. As we saw yesterday, the 2,300 years start in 457 b.c. So, if you count 2,300 years from 457 b.c., you get a.d. 1844. (Remember not to count the year zero.) If you subtract 490 years from 2,300 years (that is, 2,300 years minus 490), then you have 1,810 years left over. If you add those 1,810 years to a.d. 34 (the year that the 490 years end), then you also come to a.d. 1844. So, Jesus’ work to clean heaven’s temple in Daniel 8:14 starts in a.d. 1844.

Do you see that the 1844 date fits with what we learned about Daniel 7 and 8? That is, God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7 starts after the 1,260 years that the little horn hurts God’s people (Daniel 7:25). God’s work as Judge happens at the same time that He makes heaven’s temple clean. So, God’s work as Judge and His work of cleaning heaven’s temple both happen after the 1,260 years of attacks against God’s people. At the same time, God’s work as Judge and His cleaning of heaven’s temple happen before Jesus’ Second Coming. After that time, Jesus will set up His everlasting kingdom.

2,300 Year Prophecy

457 b.c. <--490 years--> a.d. 34 <--1,810 years-->  1844

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. Bible thinkers have said that the 2,300-day time message and the 70-week time message are really one big prophecy, or special message about the future. Why do you think they say that? What proof can you find to show that this idea is true?`

`2. What can we learn from Daniel’s prayer for his people? How can it help us in our own prayer life?`

`3. Jesus died for our sins. His death is our only hope. How should this Bible truth make us more forgiving and loving? What does Luke 7:40–47 teach us?`

Jesus’ work in Daniel 8:14 to clean heaven’s temple starts in a.d. 1844.
