---
title:  The Words of Eternal Life
date:  25/11/2024
---

`Read John 6:61–68. When Jesus asked the disciples if they would leave Him, what was the meaning of Peter’s answer?`

Peter’s words about “eternal life” tap into a theme that runs throughout the Gospel of John. A concentration of phraseology about eternal life appears in John 6, in the context of the feeding of the 5,000 (John 6:27, 40, 47, 54, 68). Jesus says that He is the Bread of Life (John 6:35), meaning that His life, His death, and His resurrection are the source of eternal salvation.

The phrase _everlasting life_ or its equivalent occurs at least 17 times in the Gospel of John. This term does not refer to a spirit existence, or to becoming part of an eternal being, or to some other ethereal concept. Rather, it refers to that life-giving power that brings salvation and meaning to our existence now and to life without end when our Lord returns. Just as Jesus became flesh, so the resurrection that Jesus talks about takes place in time and space and in a physical body. It is a resurrection from the dead, a renewal of the life that we once had in Eden.

`How do we receive eternal life? John 3:15, 16; John 5:24; John 6:40, 47; John 8:31; John 12:46; John 20:31.`

By faith alone we believe that Jesus Christ came to live and to die on our behalf. This faith comes to us as a gift, but we must consciously choose to surrender ourselves to Jesus, to repent, and to claim His blood for the forgiveness and cleansing of sin.

When Jesus asked Peter if he, too, was going to leave, Peter’s answer, “ ‘Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life’ ” (John 6:68, NKJV), encapsulates the essence of salvation and how we attain it. It doesn’t come from philosophy, history, or science—all human disciplines. It comes from Jesus, who—possessing in Himself eternal life—offers it freely to all who, responding to the Holy Spirit, will accept it.

`How does the promise of having eternal life impact how we view our temporal life here? How should it impact how we view it?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When so many of Christ’s followers left Him, and the Saviour asked the twelve, “Will ye also go away?” Simon Peter answered, “Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life” (John 6:68). It filled Christ’s heart with sorrow to see anyone leaving Him, because He knew that faith in His name and in His mission is man’s only hope. This desertion of His followers was a humiliation to Him. Oh, how little human beings know of the sorrow that filled the heart of infinite love when such things took place. . . .\
Well might the disciples say, “Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.” Consider what Christ was. The Son of the Highest, yet a Man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Have we experienced the blessing that comes from trusting Him with the whole heart, and honoring Him by ever showing our love and devotion to Him? Christ is hungry for fruit—fruit that will appease His hunger of soul in our behalf. It is His desire that we bear “much fruit.”\
Let us keep our hearts open to His love. “What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?” (Mark 8:36). Oh, when we can speak understandingly the words spoken by Peter, “Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life,” wonderful blessings will come to us.—This Day With God, p. 189.

And if you love Jesus, you will have your feet planted in the blood-stained foot-prints of the Man of Calvary, and at last those who have gained the victory will enter in through the gates into the city, and have a right to the tree of life. God has given us reasoning faculties, and he wants us to use them. He has given us a chart which marks out for us the only right way to reach eternal life. Study the Scriptures for yourselves. Hear what the voice of the true Shepherd says to you, and then walk in the path of humble obedience, and at last the gift of eternal life will be granted to you. We cannot afford to lose eternal life. May God grant that we may meet this dear people around the great white throne, and with them sing the song of redemption in the kingdom of glory.—The Review and Herald, June 10, 1890, par. 13.

“These words spake Jesus, and lifted up His eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee; as thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given them. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.” The right knowledge of the truth, God and of Jesus Christ, the world’s Redeemer, brings eternal life to the receiver,—spiritual life in this human existence and eternal life in the kingdom of God.—Manuscript Releases, vol. 6, p. 233.