---
title:  Believing and New Birth
date:  26/11/2024
---

`Read John 1:12, 13. What are the steps described here about becoming a Christian?`

John wrote his Gospel so that we would believe in Jesus and that by believing we may have eternal life in His name (John 20:31). In John 1:12, 13, this process is described in two steps. First, we receive Him, that is, believe in Him. Second, He gives us authority or power to become God’s children, described in verse 13 as being begotten by God. Thus, there is a human and divine aspect of becoming a Christian. We must act in belief, receive Him, and be open to the light, but He is the one who regenerates the heart.

In fact, faith itself is a gift of God that comes by hearing His Word (Rom. 10:17). “In order to have true, abiding faith in Christ, we must know Him as He is represented in the word.”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, p. 433. “The Spirit operating upon and enlightening the human mind, creates faith in God.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 940.

Those who believe or accept the Son as the Messiah receive everlasting life. John also emphasizes accepting or believing the Word that Jesus spoke (John 5:24, 38, 47). It is the role of the Holy Spirit to bring conviction (John 16:7, 8; compare with Rom. 8:16).

`Read Romans 8:16. What principle about salvation in Jesus is found here?`

Faith, biblical faith, based on the work of the Holy Spirit in our hearts, is the foundation of our faith. “Faith is . . . the great blessing—the eye that sees, the ear that hears.”—Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, p. 104. The humanistic approach to faith states that we must find a foundation, the criteria for faith, and then believe. In contrast, the biblical approach states that faith is the foundation, a gift from God (Eph. 2:8, 1 Cor. 1:17–24, 1 Cor. 2:1–6). We start with the foundation of faith, and then from there we grow in understanding and grace.

`If someone were to ask you what your faith is based on, how would you respond?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The old nature, born of blood and the will of the flesh, cannot inherit the kingdom of God. The old ways, the hereditary tendencies, the former habits, must be given up; for grace is not inherited. The new birth consists in having new motives, new tastes, new tendencies. Those who are begotten unto a new life by the Holy Spirit, have become partakers of the divine nature, and in all their habits and practices they will give evidence of their relationship to Christ. When men who claim to be Christians retain all their natural defects of character and disposition, in what does their position differ from that of the worldling? They do not appreciate the truth as a sanctifier, a refiner. They have not been born again.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 6, p. 1101.

Today in the religious world there are multitudes who, as they believe, are working for the establishment of the kingdom of Christ as an earthly and temporal dominion. They desire to make our Lord the ruler of the kingdoms of this world, the ruler in its courts and camps, its legislative halls, its palaces and market places. They expect Him to rule through legal enactments, enforced by human authority. Since Christ is not now here in person, they themselves will undertake to act in His stead, to execute the laws of His kingdom. The establishment of such a kingdom is what the Jews desired in the days of Christ. They would have received Jesus, had He been willing to establish a temporal dominion, to enforce what they regarded as the laws of God, and to make them the expositors of His will and the agents of His authority. But He said, “My kingdom is not of this world.” John 18:36.—The Desire of Ages, p. 509.

In this age, the Word of God is not considered reliable. The word of Christ, that cuts directly across human desires and indulgences, and condemns popular habits and practices—the Word which was made flesh and dwelt among us—is ignored and despised. The teachings and example of Christ are not made the criterion for the life of the professed follower of Christ. Many who name the name of Christ are walking in the light of the sparks of their own kindling, rather than following in the footsteps of their professed Master. They do not represent the same character that Christ represented in His pure, sincere love to God, and in His love for fallen man. They do not take God at His word, and identify their interests with Jesus Christ. They do not form the habit of communing with Jesus, of taking Him as a guide and counselor, and thus learn the trade of living a well-defined Christian life. . . .\
The result of the internal operation of the Holy Spirit is demonstrated in the outward conduct. The life of the Christian is hid with Christ in God, and God acknowledges those who are His, declaring, “Ye are My witnesses.” They testify that divine power is influencing their hearts and shaping their conduct.—Lift Him Up, p. 124.