---
title:  Further Thought
date:  29/11/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘God With Us,’ ” pp. 19–26; “Controversy,” pp. 601–609, in The Desire of Ages.

“In stooping to take upon Himself humanity, Christ revealed a character the opposite of the character of Satan. But He stepped still lower in the path of humiliation. ‘Being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.’ Phil. 2:8. As the high priest laid aside his gorgeous pontifical robes, and officiated in the white linen dress of the common priest, so Christ took the form of a servant, and offered sacrifice, Himself the priest, Himself the victim. ‘He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon Him.’ Isa. 53:5.

“Christ was treated as we deserve, that we might be treated as He deserves. He was condemned for our sins, in which He had no share, that we might be justified by His righteousness, in which we had no share. He suffered the death which was ours, that we might receive the life which was His. ‘With His stripes we are healed.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 25.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus gave so much to save the world. What do you consider the best ways to help others see this amazing truth and come to Him in faith?`

`What are the key differences in making decisions on a human, worldly level versus making decisions on the basis of divine revelation?`

`How do such things as logic and reason fit with understanding the Word of God? What logical and rational reasons do we have for coming to faith? How do such things as the fulfillment of prophecy or the astonishing beauty and complexity of the created world point us logically and rationally to the existence of God and to the truth of the plan of salvation?`

`In class, talk about your answer to the question at the end of Tuesday’s study. What is your faith based on? If someone were to ask you why you believe in Jesus and the claims of the gospel, how would you respond?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Desire of Ages, “Controversy,” pp. 601–609;\
My Life Today, “Christ Is the Truth,” p. 260.