---
title: 'Bad Temple Leaders'
date: 08/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Nehemiah 13 starts with trouble with people from Ammon and Moab (Nehemiah 13:1–3). These people worship idols. Nehemiah 13 does not say that Nehemiah sends away the Ammonites and Moabites because they came from a different country. No, the Ammonites and Moabites must leave because they worship false gods. (Read also Deuteronomy 23:3–6.)

`Read Nehemiah 13:1–9. As these verses show us, who are Eliashib and Tobiah? What do they do wrong? Why is it wrong? For answers, also look at Nehemiah 2:10, 19; Nehemiah 3:1; Nehemiah 12:10, 22; and Nehemiah 13:28.`

We see Eliashib and Tobiah a lot in the book of Nehemiah. Eliashib is the high priest or top religious leader for the Jews. Eliashib also is in charge of the temple. Tobiah is from Ammon. He is Nehemiah’s enemy. He tried to stop Nehemiah in the past from doing his work in Jerusalem. Eliashib’s friendship with Tobiah shows us that they must be connected by marriage. Tobiah must have married a woman from Eliashib’s family.

We have no record of Tobiah’s marriage to his Jewish wife. But we do know that Tobiah has a Jewish name. The name Tobiah means “the Lord is good.” So, this name is a hint that Tobiah comes from a Jewish background. His wife’s family is somehow connected to Eliashib’s family. But we are not sure how exactly. On top of that, Sanballat the Horonite has a daughter. She is married to Eliashib’s grandson. You will remember that Sanballat is one of Nehemiah’s enemies. So, the top leaders in the country are now connected to each other by marriage. And they are all against Nehemiah.

While Nehemiah is gone, the high priest, Eliashib, gives one of the rooms in the temple to Tobiah. This room is used to hold gifts and offerings. Eliashib gives Tobiah permission to live in the temple. This room shows everyone that Tobiah is now one of the top leaders in the land of the Jews. All along, Nehemiah’s enemies wanted to throw Nehemiah out of office. They wanted to take charge. Now they think they have won! But not if Nehemiah has anything to say about it. He is not going to accept this.

_Eliashib gives Tobiah permission to live in the temple._