---
title: 'The Levites In The Fields'
date: 09/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 13:10–14. As these verses show, what does Nehemiah want to change?`

The people stop supporting the work in the temple. With no pay, how will the singers, gatekeepers, and other temple servants feed their families? They go back to work in their own fields. Nehemiah is very upset by this news. Everything he did to keep worship going in the temple has stopped. So, Nehemiah must start over. He must convince the people to support the temple again. He must convince the temple workers to come back to work in the temple. No wonder Nehemiah throws all of Tobiah’s stuff out of the temple room!

“The temple has been made dirty with sin. The high priest, or top religious leader, did not do right with the gifts from the people. So, the people did not want to give gifts to the temple anymore. Then there was not a lot of money left to take care of the temple. Many of the singers and other temple workers left God’s work. They went to work somewhere else.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 670, adapted.

But look what happens after Nehemiah comes back. Everyone in the country comes together. They help build again what the leaders destroyed. The people are on Nehemiah’s side against Tobiah and Eliashib. The people know what is in Nehemiah’s heart. They know that he loves them and is not selfish. He helped them in the past. He made their lives better. So, they trust him. Nehemiah chooses new people to take care of the temple. He chooses men that he trusts. Nehemiah gives these men the job of collecting the offerings and gifts for the temple. Nehemiah is a brave man. He does not waste any time. He kicks evil out of the temple as soon as he gets back home.

Nehemiah puts good men in charge of the temple. But Eliashib does not lose his job. He continues to be the high priest. He cannot lose his job. He is from the line of Aaron. So, that means he is high priest for life, even if he is an awful man. The good news is that Nehemiah gives some of Eliashib’s tasks to good and loyal men. So, that puts a stop to much of the evil work that Eliashib does in the temple.

_The singers, gatekeepers, and other temple workers go back to work in their fields._