---
title: 'Offerings And Gifts For The Temple'
date: 10/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Nehemiah changes many things in the temple. He makes worship in the temple better. The people stopped paying tithe. Tithe is 10% of all the money you earn. So, Nehemiah encourages the people to start paying tithes and offerings again.

`Read about tithes and offerings in Numbers 18:21–24; Malachi 3:10; Matthew 23:23; 1 Corinthians 9:7–14; 2 Corinthians 9:6–8; and Hebrews 7:1, 2. What do these verses teach us about why we should pay tithes and offerings?`

As we saw, the people stopped paying tithe. With no tithes and offerings, the temple is in trouble. Many workers leave the temple. They look for other jobs so they can feed their families. So, people stop coming to the temple to worship God. 

“God gave His people a plan for tithes and offerings. It is a beautiful plan. It shows that God is fair. Both rich and poor people have a part to do. God asks all of us to give back to Him 10% of everything we earn. 

“We read about God’s plan for tithe in Malachi 3:10. Do you see that God does not ask us to pay tithe because we feel like giving or being unselfish? Yes, those reasons are good reasons for giving. But they are not the reasons we pay God tithe. We pay tithe because God orders us to pay it. The tithe belongs to God. He asks that we give it back to Him.”—Seventh-day Adventists Believe . . . , 2nd edition (Boise, Idaho: Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 2005), page 304, adapted.

What will happen if our church stops paying tithe? The same thing that happened to the Israelite temple. Our church will suffer. We all need to support God’s church. Then we can pay the people who do God’s work. And we can enjoy worshiping God in our churches too. If we do not pay tithe, then our worldwide church will have trouble sharing the Good News about Jesus with other people. So, it is very important to pay our tithes and offerings. 

We also pay tithes because it is part of God’s plan for us. We can read about this plan in the Bible. God expects us to trust His wisdom. He is in control. So, we can trust Him when we put our tithes in His hands. 

`Why is paying tithe important for our spirit?`

_“The tithe belongs to God. He asks that we give it back to Him.”_