---
title: 'Breaking The Sabbath'
date: 11/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 13:15, 16. As these verses show us, what problem does Nehemiah want to solve?`

It is not easy to stand up for God when most people do not stand with you. But Nehemiah has courage. He wants to take a stand for the Sabbath. God tells us that the Sabbath is a holy day. No work should be done on the Sabbath. So, Nehemiah wants to make sure the people in Jerusalem obey God’s command. 

Yes, the Sabbath is a special day. It helps us remember that God made us. God wants us to spend this time with Him. The Sabbath also is a time when God makes our lives new. But that only happens when we spend that holy time with Him. 

The Sabbath is a powerful day. It helps keep our faith alive when we honor it. The Sabbath is God’s gift to us. It blesses us with rest and peace.

`Read Nehemiah 13:17–22. As these verses show us, what does Nehemiah do to stop people from buying and selling on the Sabbath?`

As governor of Judah, Nehemiah must help the people follow the rules. Judah’s rules are made from God’s law. So, Nehemiah must protect the law, including the Sabbath commandment. When Nehemiah left Jerusalem, the leaders let Eliashib and Tobiah do whatever they wanted. Maybe the leaders were mad at Nehemiah for what happened in the past. You will remember that Nehemiah made the leaders pay back money to the poor.

The first thing Nehemiah does is scold the leaders. Then he commands the people to shut the city gates. He posts men at the gates to guard them. What happens next? The people move the marketplace from inside the city to outside it to get around Nehemiah’s law! Nehemiah takes action. He tells the sellers that they will be beaten if they try to sell things outside the city the next Sabbath. The sellers see that Nehemiah is not afraid to punish them. So, they stop coming back to the city after that.

`God wants us to spend the Sabbath with Him. It is a time when God makes our lives new.`