---
title:  WHAT DID YOUR FATHERS DO?
date:   12/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Nehemiah loves God’s Sabbath. We like him for his deep love. We saw yesterday how much Nehemiah loves God’s Sabbath. He promises to punish the sellers from other countries if they will not stop selling their stuff on the Sabbath. As a governor, Nehemiah’s job is to make sure that the people obey this law.

Nehemiah is not afraid to tell the leaders what they do wrong either. They do not do their duty. “ ‘You are doing a very bad thing. You are ruining [breaking] the Sabbath day. You know that your ancestors [family members from long ago] did the same things. That is why our God brought all the troubles and disaster [bad happening] to us and to this city. Now you people are making it so that more of these bad things will happen to Israel. They are doing this because you are breaking the Sabbath by treating [thinking about] it just as if it were any other day’ ” (Nehemiah 13:17, 18, ERV).

Then Nehemiah says, “So this is what I did: Every Friday evening, just before dark, I commanded the gatekeepers to shut and lock the gates to Jerusalem. They were not to be opened until the Sabbath day was over. I put some of my own men at the gates. They were commanded to make sure that no load was brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day” (Nehemiah 13:19, ERV).

Nehemiah warns the people not to break the Sabbath. His words help them to see what they do wrong. Then the Jews become very strict about keeping the Sabbath after that. By Jesus’ time, the Jews are too strict. Jesus often does not agree with the religious leaders about how to keep the Sabbath.

`Read Matthew 12:1–8; Mark 3:1–6; Luke 6:6–11; and John 5:5–16. What happens in these verses? How does the Jews’ experience with the Sabbath in Nehemiah’s day help explain why the problem happens?`

The religious leaders accuse Jesus of breaking the law. Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath (Luke 6:5). How can the One who made the Sabbath be guilty of breaking it? Talk about taking a good thing too far! Yes, the leaders are right to honor the Sabbath. But they are too strict. Yes, the law is important. But the leaders do not remember that being fair, showing mercy, and having faith are more important than their man-made rules (Matthew 23:23).

_The religious leaders accuse Jesus of breaking the Sabbath._