---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 13/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Ellen G. White, “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pages 115–126, in Steps to Christ.

“Nehemiah explains God’s command. God does not want His people to marry anyone who worships false gods. Nehemiah shows God’s people the awful things that will happen to them if they break this very law. These same things happened to their people in the past. The Jews wake up. They see their sin. They start to change. They start to do the work that will turn away God’s anger. The change brings God’s blessing and favor.

“Some religious leaders have wives who worship false gods. These religious leaders announce that they cannot let go of their wives. They cannot be separated from them. But Nehemiah does not show them pity. He does not care if they are important leaders. If they refuse to give up their wives, they cannot serve God in the temple. One example is the grandson of the top religious leader. This grandson married a daughter of Sanballat. Sanballat is an evil man. When the grandson refuses to give up his wife, Nehemiah removes this man from office. Then he makes him leave Israel forever! Nehemiah prays, ‘My God, punish these people. They made the priesthood [the religious leaders] unclean [full of sin]. They treated [their actions showed what they felt about the law] it as if it was not important. They did not obey the agreement that you made with the priests and Levites.’ [Nehemiah 13:29, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 673, 674, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Read in class the Ellen G. White statement above. What do you think about Nehemiah’s actions? Do you think Nehemiah was too strong? Or do you feel it was right for him to separate holy men from the wives that they loved? Give reasons for your answer. Why must our church leaders show love and understanding when they punish church members for their sins?`

`2. In Nehemiah’s day, the people start doing wrong. Little by little, they fall deeper into sin. Why must we be careful not to do the same thing? How can we protect ourselves against this danger?`

_“When the grandson refuses to give up his wife, Nehemiah removes this man from office. Then [Nehemiah] makes him leave Israel forever!”_