---
title:  Bigger Than You Are
date:  21/07/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 6:3, 4

In my walk with God, I have seen over and over again His relentless desire to put me into situations that are apparently impossible to solve. For example, when I was right out of high school, He sent me to a remote island in the Pacific Ocean to live as a missionary with no experience and no means. There, under primitive circumstances, I was faced with challenges much bigger than myself: How do I share Christ with people who don’t understand a word I say? What do I do now that the island has run out of fresh water and food? How do I communicate with the outside world when all I have is a radio that is not fully functional?

I have learned that, when faced with difficulties and impossibilities, it is through trust in Christ that we truly grow. When a crisis arises, God wants to do something magnificent in and through us.

Satan hates the truth. Ever since Eden he has attacked it and its followers using destruction and deception. It is not surprising, then, to read about persecution and problems in the midst of the early Christian movement—the most significant revolution this world has ever witnessed. They, like us, had the heaven-ordained challenge to fulfill Christ’s radical commission to communicate the gospel truth to the world. On top of that, the enemy of all truth made sure that the path to world evangelism was full of seemingly insurmountable troubles, from both outside and within.

The leaders of the early church were young and, from a worldly perspective, uneducated. But, because they had learned in the school of Christ the lessons of love, humility, self-surrender, and trust, God was able to pour out His Spirit upon them. This empowered them to solve hard issues, to be mighty witnesses performing miracles and proclaiming the truth with holy boldness amid the trials of persecution.

Great lessons of Christian leadership are found in the lives of these young leaders. Faced with a mission and challenges bigger than themselves, their words and acts reveal to us today the keys to successful missionary efforts, the right way to deal with internal and external church problems, and most important, the path to a Spirit-filled and fruitful life lived to the glory of God.

I invite you this week to learn from them and to accept the call that is bigger than you are!

_Jonathan Walter, Grand Haven, Michigan, USA_