---
title:  The Church Dilemma
date:  22/07/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 6:1–7

Evangelism was effective. Miracles abounded. Love reigned; and then it happened. The early church’s common purse, funds that were shared so that no one would lack, was being withheld from some Hellenistic, Greek-speaking Christian widows. Action was needed in behalf of the neglected, or the church would suffer from disunity.

As the apostles brainstormed what to do, a thought struck them—rather than use their evangelistic energy on calming the storm, why not choose a team to be in charge of the common purse? And so, seven God-fearing men were appointed with a specific goal of keeping things fair so that God’s work would continue to move forward effectively.

Of the seven appointed we know the most about Stephen. His name, Stephen, comes from Greek, meaning “crown.” Because of his Greek name and because of his appointment as a deacon in response to complaints by Greekspeaking Hellenistic Christians, it is assumed that he was also a Hellenistic (Greek influenced and Greek speaking) Jew.1 In fact, an examination of the six other’s names reveal that they were also Hellenistic Jews.2 What better way to tackle the issue of neglected Hellenistic widows than a Hellenistic team! Rather than letting the situation get out of hand, God led the church to tackle it in a way that led to more strength and an organization that impacted even more lives.

Not only does Acts 6:7 imply that the Word of God continued to increase as a result of their ministry, but in verse 8 it specifically mentions that Stephen was “full of grace and power,” “doing great wonders and signs among the people” (ESV)—acts that eventually led to his martyrdom.

There seems to be an underlying thought that you have to be a certain age for God to use you, yet he whose sacrifice and testimony have impacted millions may have been a young adult, and the rest of this team that God used to resolve a church issue may have been even younger. Think God can’t use you? Think again.

**React**

`1. Do you think organization is a good thing or a bad thing? Why?`

`2. God wishes to use even you to do mighty works. What needs to happen for you to move to the next level with Him?`

_Ryan Neall, Orlando, Florida, USA_