---
title:  Organization and Expansion
date:  23/07/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 6:1–6, 8–15; 7:1–53; 7:55–8:2; 8:4–25

**The Appointment of the Seven Deacons (Acts 6:1–6)**

Contention between the Grecians (Jews from Greece) and the Hebrews (Jews from Jerusalem) gave rise to an opportunity for further organization of the church. Up to this point, as far as we can see from the previous chapters, the apostles were doing most of the work. Yet the increase in numbers caused the demand to become greater than the supply. Here comes a crucial lesson in leadership—the importance of delegation. The part of ministry involving serving the widows and those in need was an aspect of ministry that others could be called upon to do. Yet there were aspects of the gospel ministry that only the apostles could perform and, thus, should not neglect for that which could be accomplished by others. Thus seven deacons were chosen.

God is a God of order (1 Cor. 14:33, 40), and thus His work is to be done in an orderly manner. Verse 7 tells us that the church prospered and many more souls were converted to the truth as a result of more organization and greater member involvement.

**The Ministry of Stephen (Acts 6:8–15)**

Most of us have heard of Stephen as the first Christian martyr, who powerfully defended his faith before the Sanhedrin. Yet many times we forget that Stephen was “just” a deacon. Our perception of a deacon today is quite different from the example given by this martyr. The opinion that often prevails of pastors, elders, and outreach coordinators being the only ones who are supposed to do evangelism, not all the laity, is boldly contradicted by the example of the early church. Stephen not only spread the gospel but in disputing with those in the synagogue, “they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke” (verse 10, NKJV).

Failing to silence him by dispute, those in the synagogue resorted to fraud. Yet as the false witnesses hurled their terrible accusations, all beheld contrary evidence manifested in the countenance of Stephen. More than his irrefutable arguments, his character gave greater force to the truth of the gospel.

**Stephen’s Defense (Acts 7:1–53)**

Stephen had a thorough knowledge of the Scriptures, thus exemplifying to us, once again, the need for all members to know the reason for their faith and to be able to defend it. At his trial, Stephen’s defense is the recounting of common Jewish history, while emphasizing the prophecies concerning Christ. He does not lessen the guilt of his hearers but declares them to be rejecting the Holy Spirit and acting the part of their fathers who killed the prophets of old. Stephen brings out an interesting point concerning Moses, found in verses 34 and 35. He says that God heard the cry of the Israelites and decided to intervene; yet He chooses an unlikely instrument who had been previously rejected and who, from a human perspective, definitely did not seem fit for the job for many reasons. Similarly, Jesus coming from Nazareth disappointed the pride of the Jewish leaders and encouraged their rejection of Him. Often in Scripture we find God using unlikely instruments to do great things that the glory may go to Him, not to man.

**Jesus Standing in Judgment (Acts 7:55–8:2)**

The stoning of Stephen marks the close of the 70-week prophecy concerning the nation of Israel, upon which their probation would close, meaning they would cease to be God’s special people (cf. Dan. 9:24–27). Israel as a nation had so long been in apostasy that God gave them 490 years before He would choose another instrument to reach the world. Even after they crucified the Messiah, three and a half years of their probation remained (verse 27).

In a.d. 34, at his execution, Stephen saw Jesus in heaven “standing” at the right hand of God, indicating judgment (cf. Josh. 20:6; Ezek. 44:24). In his defense he had mentioned that the Jews had resisted the Holy Spirit and broken the law given them (Acts 7:51, 53). Thus the time had now come for the gospel to go to the Gentiles. As soon as Stephen was martyred, fierce persecution arose and the followers of Christ were forced to flee, resulting in the gospel going to the entire world. The Jews would still have the opportunity of salvation as individuals, but they were no longer God’s chosen vessel to proclaim the gospel to the world.

**The Gospel Spread (Acts 8:4–25)**

The flood of persecution the devil sent to crush the early church God transformed into a blessing, spreading the gospel beyond Jerusalem into all the world. Philip, also one of the seven deacons, went and converted Samaria, as well as healing all manner of sickness found there.

Although Simon, once a sorcerer, had accepted the gospel of Christ, he made an almost fatal mistake in attempting to purchase an outpouring of the Holy Spirit. This teaches us that the calling of God is not something that can be bought or won by good deeds; rather, it is freely given to those of His choosing. Nevertheless, those who do not receive a particular calling are not to sit in complacency but to serve in the work that lies nearest to them.

**React**

`1. What key event, and its results, did God use to expand the work globally? What does that teach us about trials?`

`2. What are ways in which you personally can aid in sharing the gospel with your community?`

_Christian De Los Santos, Columbus, Ohio, USA_