---
title:  Called to Excellence; No Matter the Position
date:  24/07/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 6:1–6

“By prayer and the laying on of hands, seven chosen men were solemnly set apart for their duties as deacons. . . .

“ . . . These officers gave careful consideration to individual needs as well as to the general financial interests of the church, and by their prudent management and their godly example they were an important aid to their fellow officers in binding together the various interests of the church into a united whole.”1

Nevertheless, “the fact that these brethren had been ordained for the special work of looking after the needs of the poor, did not exclude them from teaching the faith. On the contrary, they were fully qualified to instruct others in the truth, and they engaged in the work with great earnestness and success.”2

“Stephen, the foremost of the seven deacons, was a man of deep piety and broad faith. Though a Jew by birth, he spoke the Greek language and was familiar with the customs and manners of the Greeks. He therefore found opportunity to preach the gospel in the synagogues of the Greek Jews. He was very active in the cause of Christ and boldly proclaimed his faith. Learned rabbis and doctors of the law engaged in public discussion with him, confidently expecting an easy victory. But ‘they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake.’ Not only did he speak in the power of the Holy Spirit, but it was plain that he was a student of the prophecies and learned in all matters of the law. He ably defended the truths that he advocated and utterly defeated his opponents.”3

**React**

`1. What would the church today look like if the characteristics found in Acts 6:3 described every single member that takes part in it, from the usher at the door to the preacher in the pulpit?`

`2. In a world that desperately needs the rich and educated people to be reached for Jesus, how can the testimony of Stephen be an example to us? How can we, as college and university students, use all the knowledge and tools that we have gained in our different areas of study to spread the gospel?`

_Abigail Rodríguez Matambo, Añasco, Puerto Rico, USA_