---
title:  Putting Your Heart Right
date:  25/07/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 8:4–2

The persecution in Jerusalem opened the way for the gospel to move out of Jerusalem into the regions beyond. Philip ended up in the city of Samaria, and it is here that we meet Simon the magician, who was famous in that city for all the wonders he performed through magic. Philip brings the truth of the gospel and converts the city, including Simon, who was also baptized.

Simon was fascinated by the miracles he witnessed Philip performing. He was also very impressed by how the Holy Spirit came upon the newly baptized after Peter and John laid their hands on them. Simon, wanting to be able to do the same, offers the apostles money for the “secret” of how they did it. The response of Peter is our focus: “ ‘Your money perish with you, because you thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money! You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right in the sight of God’ ” (Acts 8:20, 21, NKJV).

Simon was used to being the performer of “wonders,” he was used to the recognition that came with that, and he saw a greater power at work in the spreading of the gospel than he had ever seen in his previous use of magic.

The truth was that he wanted the recognition more than he desired the Holy Spirit. Similarly today, there is the temptation to seek to impart God’s Spirit to others without having first experienced it personally. Simon wanted to do “the work of Christ” without receiving the Spirit of Christ.

As you grow as a Christian there will be many conversion experiences along the way. How can you avoid the enemy’s trap of merely ministering for Christ and doing a seemingly great work for Him yet, all the while, neglecting to allow the power of Christ to minister to your own heart first? How can your heart become right and stay that way?

1. Examine your intent at regular intervals, and ask God to lead (Ps. 139:24).

2. Repent of anything you find is not right in your heart, and allow God to refresh and reset your focus (Acts 3:19).

3. Pray earnestly and without ceasing as you share the gospel (Acts 4:31).

4. Allow God to change you and abide in His presence daily through the Word (Ezek. 11:19, 20).

**React**

`Can the Holy Spirit still use you if your heart is not right? Why, do you think, is it so easy to get caught up in merely “doing” the gospel?`

_Charlene Coutet, Manchester, United Kingdom_