---
title:  As It Was, So It Is
date:  26/07/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 6:8–15; 8:4–25

The incredible stories of believers being filled with the Holy Spirit, performing wondrous miracles, and being martyred for their faith can often seem so far from our own realities. For the most part, we have religious freedom. We have television broadcasts and radio programs that share the message. And while we believe and know that we are to spread the gospel to the world, how many of us personally take it upon ourselves to share the truth with those we encounter every day: our neighbors, our friends, the woman behind us at the checkout counter?

The work that the early church was able to accomplish in such a short amount of time (despite differences and hardships that led to disagreements) is a testimony to how we as a church are to live and carry out the work today. The early believers submitted themselves fully to the power of the Holy Spirit, and the fruit they produced was evident and brought glory to God. Though faced with hard trials, they never tired of bringing the gospel message to those in the surrounding areas and beyond.

What can we do to finish the work that the apostles started?

Stephen preached unwaveringly in the face of opposition, and, eventually, it cost him his life. No one could oppose the truth he uplifted, and the Bible tells us that all who gazed upon him “saw that his face was like the face of an angel” (Acts 6:15, NIV).

When we humble our hearts in prayer and allow ourselves to be used by the Spirit, we will see amazing things happen in our lives that further the advancement of God’s kingdom. This is what we are called for. This is how we are to live.

The gospel message, to those who accept it, is more amazing than anything else, or any other spectacle, this world can offer (see Acts 8:9–12). If the apostles preached it with such zeal two thousand years ago, how much more should we be sharing the truth with those around us today?

**React**

`1. How can we be sure that we will stand for truth, even when everyone goes against us?`

`2. What does it mean for us to open our hearts to allow the Spirit to work through us?`

_Amanda Walter, Grand Haven, Michigan, USA_