---
title:  Focus
date:  27/07/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 6

**Conclude**

The Hellenists’ complaint in Acts 6 was a pivotal experience for the early church. If not addressed, this conflict could have snowballed. Tact, however, was necessary in order to remain focused on the goal of delivering the gospel to all peoples. Delegation, in this case, was the solution. This issue doesn’t resurface in Acts; but instead we see the newly appointed deacons, Stephen and Philip, work powerfully to win souls for God. As He did the early church, God is ready to mightily use us if we address issues while always keeping in mind the overarching mission and purpose of the church.

**Consider**

- Listening to and singing the hymn “Macedonia” by Anne Ortlund. Ponder the role Jesus plays in helping His church remain focused on its mission.

- Watching “The Monkey Business Illusion” on Daniel Simmons’s YouTube channel. What does this illusion have to do with keeping our eyes fixed on Christ and our calling as a church?

- Listing all the activities you spend your time doing. What can you cut out of your schedule or delegate to others to make sure you are focused on what’s important?

- Collaborating with your young adult group to record or present a skit of how a common issue in the church could be resolved by bringing to light the bigger picture of why the church exists.

- Studying three unusual symbiotic relationships in the animal kingdom. Think about why and how God intentionally places diverse people in the church for a common goal.

- Reading and discussing with a friend chapter 3: “Start With Heart: How to Stay Focused on What You Really Want” from the book Crucial Conversations by Kerry Patterson, Joseph Grenny, Ron McMillan, and Al Switzler.

**Connect**

Numbers 11:1–17; Acts 15:1–29.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 2, “The Training of the Twelve”; chapter 9, “The Seven Deacons”; Christian Service, chapter 8, “Organizing Christian Forces”; The Desire of Ages, chap. 29, “The Sabbath.”

Steven J. Lawson, The Gospel Focus of Charles Spurgeon, chapter 1, “Spurgeon’s Life and Legacy.”

_David Buruchara, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA_