---
title:  The Unmarried Life
date:  22/04/2019
---

A young woman told of the advantages of not being married: “Twice I had the opportunity to go serve in the mission field, and I responded without any hesitation.” A married person, with a family, might have had to take a little more time making that decision because it doesn’t just involve them but also their spouse and children.

`What are, according to Paul, good reasons for remaining unmarried? 1 Cor. 7:25–34, NKJV.`

Most people think that being married is God’s will for them. Didn’t He say, “ ‘It is not good that man should be alone?’ ” And yet, we have many examples in the Bible of people who were not married, including the greatest example of all, Jesus Christ.

Jeremiah was told not to marry (Jer. 16:1–3); it was a judgment on a historical situation. We don’t know if that restriction was ever removed, but it is clear that Jeremiah was a great prophet while he was single.

Ezekiel’s wife died suddenly. God took away this important person in his life to convey a hard lesson about the situation of His people. He was not even allowed to mourn but was to continue on with the ministry the Lord had assigned him (Ezek. 24:15–18). The prophet Hosea also experienced a broken marriage but was able to continue in ministry. While the story seems strange to us, God told him to go marry a prostitute whom God knew would leave Hosea for other men (Hosea 1–3). Looking back, we can see God trying to illustrate the one-sided love that He has for Israel and for us, but it must have been extremely hard and painful for Hosea to be the object lesson.

In each of these examples, marital status was not an issue. God was interested in the person’s integrity, obedience, and ability to say what God wanted him to say. We need to be sure that our life is not defined by our marital condition. Many voices today will tell us that unless we are married we are not complete. Paul would respond, “Don’t be like the people of this world.” Instead, “offer your bodies to him as a living sacrifice, pure and pleasing” (Rom. 12:1, 2, CEV).

`What are practical ways you can minister to those who are unmarried, both church members and non-church members?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

As in the days of Noah, one of the signs of these times is a passion for injudicious and hasty marriages. Satan is in this. If Paul could remain single, and recommend the same to others, that he and they might be wholly the Lord’s, why not those who would be wholly His, and wish to make a sure thing of avoiding the cares, trials, and bitter anguish so frequent in the experiences of those who choose the married life, remain as he was? And more, if he chose to remain so, and could recommend it to others, eighteen centuries since, would not to remain as he was be a commendable course for those who are waiting for the coming of the Son of man, unless evidences were unquestionable that they were bettering their condition, and making heaven more sure by so doing? When so much is at stake, why not be on the sure side every time?—_The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald_, March 24, 1868. 

Let us love God supremely, allowing no influence to come between us and our God. We must give heed to the light which God has permitted to shine upon our pathway; we must show before all heaven that we appreciate every ray of light; we must reflect that light upon others. We are responsible to God for our influence. Even if we are compelled to stand apparently alone, we are not alone, for Christ is with us to encourage and strengthen and bless us. He is acquainted with every desire of your heart, with every purpose of your soul. He says, “I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you” (John 14:18). Let us believe that God will do just as He has promised.—_That I May Know Him,_ p. 203. 

God is our strength. We must look to Him for wisdom and guidance, and keeping in view His glory, the good of the church, and the salvation of our own souls, we must overcome our besetting sins. We should individually seek to obtain new victory every day. We must learn to stand alone and depend wholly upon God. The sooner we learn this the better. Let each one find out where he fails, and then faithfully watch that his sins do not overcome him, but that he gets the victory over them. Then can we have confidence toward God, and great trouble will be saved the church.—_Early Writings_, p. 105. 

God would not have us remain pressed down by dumb sorrow, with sore and breaking hearts. He would have us look up and behold His dear face of love. The blessed Saviour stands by many whose eyes are so blinded by tears that they do not discern Him. He longs to clasp our hands, to have us look to Him in simple faith, permitting Him to guide us. His heart is open to our griefs, our sorrows, and our trials. He has loved us with an everlasting love and with loving-kindness compassed us about. We may keep the heart stayed upon Him and meditate upon His loving-kindness all the day. He will lift the soul above the daily sorrow and perplexity, into a realm of peace.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 12.