---
title:  Spiritually Single
date:  25/04/2019
---

A young woman named Natalie had been married for seven years when, at the invitation of a friend, she attended an evangelistic series at a local Seventh-day Adventist church. Convicted by what she learned, she surrendered her heart to Christ, had a new-birth experience, and—despite the strenuous objections of her husband, parents, in-laws, even her next-door neighbor—Natalie joined the Seventhday Adventist Church. She also adjusted her lifestyle, to every degree possible, to her newfound faith.

As one could imagine, she faced a great deal of pushback; what made it especially hard was her husband, who argued from his point if view: “This is not what I signed up for when we got married. You are a whole new person, and I want the old one back.”

For years now, she has been struggling to live a life of faith. Though married, she is what we could call “spiritually single.”

`What encouraging words do we find in the following verses for those who may feel spiritually single? Isa. 54:5; Hos. 2:19, 20; Ps. 72:12.`

All over the world, there are “Natalies” in our church. These people, men or women, are married but attend church alone or only with their children. They may have married a person of a different faith. Or perhaps when they joined the church, their spouse did not. Or when married, both were members of the church—but one, for whatever reason, dropped out, stopped coming, and might even be hostile to the faith. These men and woman come alone to church and to the meal after the worship service or go alone to the outreach or social activities of the church. They are saddened when they cannot contribute financially to the church’s ministry as much as they would like because their spouse does not agree to do so. Though married, they might feel spiritually like a widow or a widower.

We probably all, at some time or another, have met people like this in the church, and they do need our love and support.

`What practical things can we, as a church family, do to help the spiritually single in our midst?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Now, as in Christ’s day, the condition of society presents a sad comment upon heaven’s ideal of this sacred [marriage] relation. Yet even for those who have found bitterness and disappointment where they had hoped for companionship and joy, the gospel of Christ offers a solace. The patience and gentleness which His Spirit can impart will sweeten the bitter lot. The heart in which Christ dwells will be so filled, so satisfied, with His love that it will not be consumed with longing to attract sympathy and attention to itself. And through the surrender of the soul to God, His wisdom can accomplish what human wisdom fails to do. Through the revelation of His grace, hearts that were once indifferent or estranged may be united in bonds that are firmer and more enduring than those of earth—the golden bonds of a love that will bear the test of trial.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 65. 

Patient continuance in well-doing will lead you through this world of sorrow and strife to glory and honor and eternal life. Have God within and God overhead and you have nothing to fear. The Bible is a light to those who are in darkness. In the prospect of a blissful immortality held out to those who endure unto the end, you will find an elevating power, a strength which you need to resist evil. Be steadfast in the hour of trial, and you will gain at last a crown which will never fade away.

 . . . Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and He will never betray your trust. If you will ask help of God you need not ask in vain. In order to encourage us to have confidence and trust He comes near us by His holy Word and Spirit, and seeks in a thousand ways to win our confidence. But in nothing does He take more delight than in receiving the weak who come to Him for strength. If we will find heart and voice to pray, He will be sure to find an ear to hear and an arm to save.—Letter 42, 1875.

It is the privilege of every believer first to talk with God in his closet, and then as God’s mouthpiece to talk with others. In order that we may have something to impart, we must daily receive light and blessing. Men and women who commune with God, who have an abiding Christ, who, because they cooperate with holy angels, are surrounded with holy influences, are needed at this time. The cause needs those who have power to draw with Christ, power to express the love of God in words of encouragement and sympathy. . . .

The sons and daughters of God have a great work to do in the world. They are to accept the Word of God as the man of their counsel and to impart it to others. They are to diffuse light. All who have received the engrafted word will be faithful in giving that word to others. They will speak the words of Christ. In conversation and in deportment they will give evidence of a daily conversion to the principles of truth. Such believers will be a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men, and God will be glorified in them.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 67. 