---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/04/2019
---

“In the midst of a life of active labor, Enoch steadfastly maintained his communion with God. The greater and more pressing his labors, the more constant and earnest were his prayers. He continued to exclude himself at certain periods from all society. After remaining for a time among the people, laboring to benefit them by instruction and example, he would withdraw, to spend a season in solitude, hungering and thirsting for that divine knowledge which God alone can impart. Communing thus with God, Enoch came more and more to reflect the divine image. His face was radiant with a holy light, even the light that shineth in the face of Jesus. As he came forth from these divine communings, even the ungodly beheld with awe the impress of heaven upon his countenance.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, p. 52. Though the story of Enoch here is encouraging and has something powerful to say about those who choose to have times of solitude, many face a solitude they don’t ask for. They don’t want to be alone. Yes, we can always have a joyful communion with the Lord, who is ever-present, but sometimes we crave human companionship and fellowship. How crucial that we, as a church, be ready to reach out to those who might be sitting right next to us on Sabbath each week, yet who are going through a terrible season of loneliness. At the same time, if you are going through such a time, seek out someone whom you feel that you can trust at church (or elsewhere) and let them know. Many times people simply cannot tell by looking at someone what they are going through. It’s easy, at least for some people, to hide behind a mask.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How can your church learn to be more sensitive to the needs of the lonely in your midst?`

`“Not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I am, to be content” (Phil. 4:11, NKJV). Read the larger context of Paul’s words here. How can we learn to apply these to ourselves? At the same time, why must we be very careful in how we quote this passage to someone who truly is hurting?`

`In class, talk about a time you went through severe loneliness. What helped you? What hurt you? What did you learn that could be a help to others?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Ministry of Healing_, “Our Example,” pp. 24, 25;

_The Ministry of Healing_, “Ye Shall Find Rest,” pp. 71, 72.