---
title:  Total Health
date:  19/08/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 11–15**

**Total Health**

In these days of viruses, diseases, and compromised immune systems, Leviticus 11 is more proof of how amazingly relevant the Bible is for us today. Our study this week focuses on Leviticus 11 to 15 where we learn about clean and unclean meats, sanitation, cleanliness, and even physical distancing.

If we didn’t know this book came directly from God, a fact that the text reminds us of again and again, we would be mystified as to how Moses knew so much. If you have ever wondered if the Bible is truly the Word of God, this chapter should strengthen your faith, for the health concepts contained in the book of Leviticus are thousands of years ahead of their time! How is this possible? Well, verse 1 of Leviticus 11 tells us: “Now the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron.”

Unfortunately, we often spiritualize away the practical teachings of the Bible, or to put it differently, we create spiritual applications before we take the time to understand the practical ones. Chapter 11 teaches us the importance of washing clothes, dishes, and our bodies to protect from contamination and disease (vv. 25, 28, 32). Although Israel had no concept of germs, God knew of them, and if they simply trusted Him by doing what He instructed, they would escape the diseases common in their day. Isn’t it encouraging to know that God cares about us not only spiritually but also physically? Our bodily health is important to Him!

Thankfully, our God is not sitting up in heaven coming up with laws for the purpose of restricting freedom and leaching joy out of our lives. Instead, as mentioned above, all of His laws, including His health laws, are for our good and are expressions of our Creator’s deep care for us (Rom. 13:8–10).

#### inScribe

Outline or chart out Leviticus 11 from the translation of your choice. You may also find other insights in Leviticus 12–15.

` `