---
title:  Principles of inGesting
date:  20/08/2023
---

#### inGest

Four things bear mentioning as we dive into Leviticus 11. First, notice that God tells us what we can eat before telling us what we cannot eat (vv. 1–3). There is so much we can learn from this. God knows that humans are much more willing to obey and less likely to rebel when they are positively motivated. This is why God first told Adam and Eve they could eat from “every tree of the garden” and then warned them against eating from the one tree that had death slithering in its branches (Gen. 2:16, 17). When you think about what it means to be a Seventh-day Adventist Christian, what comes to mind first? Is it a list of things you cannot do, or a list of things you can do?

Second, notice how simple God makes it for us to identify healthy or harmful meats! Land animals that are good for food must not only chew the cud but must also have a split hoof. So, split hoof + chews cud = good to eat. Pretty simple, huh? This means pork chops and camel meat is off the table . . . literally. Pigs have split hooves, but they don’t chew the cud, and camels chew the cud, but they don’t have split hooves. And by the way, pigs are riddled with toxins and contaminants. When you get a chance, google “trichinosis.”

God also makes it easy to differentiate between water creatures that are kosher (clean) or unkosher (unclean) to eat. If they have both fins and scales, they can be eaten (Lev. 11:9). As for the birds, though God gives a list of unclean fowl, it can be simplified this way: birds and other animals that are scavengers or predators should not be eaten, but birds and other animals that eat nonflesh foods in many cases can be (vv. 13–20). In other words, say no to hawks, owls, vultures, and any other meat eaters! While we’re at it, take snakes, reptiles, dogs, rats, and bears off the menu too! (vv. 27, 29, 42).

It’s interesting to note that Adventists who live a vegetarian or vegan lifestyle actually live 10 years longer than the average person—an entire, productive 10 years! Do a Google search of “Loma Linda Blue Zones” and discover more about this for yourself. It’s also good to be reminded that a vegetarian or vegan lifestyle was the original diet given to man; the option to eat meat was not given until after the Fall (Gen. 1:29; 2:9; 9:3, 4; Lev. 11; Deut. 14:3–21).

Third, what we eat affects us not only physically but also spiritually. God Himself speaks at the end of Leviticus 11, saying, “For I am the Lord your God. You shall therefore consecrate yourselves, and you shall be holy; for I am holy” (vv. 44).

Fourth, Leviticus 11 reminds us that animals matter to God. Not every animal should be hunted down, killed, and eaten—only what is needed to sustain life and only what is for our best health and the glory of God (1 Cor. 10:31). Also, the most humane treatment was given to even the sacrificial animals, a fact exemplified by the careful and considerate criteria given in Leviticus 22:27, 28. What a compassionate and wise God we have!

Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.

` `

`In what other ways are diet and spirituality related?`