---
title:  Ruminating on Ruminating
date:  21/08/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Some argue that the Levitical laws regarding clean and unclean meats are no longer applicable to us today. They argue that because of the cross, New Testament Christians are free to eat whatever meats they want. But is this logical? Don’t we have the same bodies they had? And doesn’t the blood of Jesus make sinners, not food, clean? The truth is, there is not a single passage in the Old or New Testament that invalidates the dietary laws of Leviticus 11 and Deuteronomy 14. Along with other passages, the following verses are often used to argue against keeping God’s guidelines for healthy and holy living, but their true meanings can be quickly discovered when the context is prayerfully considered.

In Mark 7:18, 19, where Jesus says anything that enters a person cannot defile them, He is talking about moral purity, not declaring unclean meats to be clean. And when Jesus mentions foods being purified by the stomach he is not speaking about unclean meats, because the Bible never categorizes unclean meats as food.

When God gives Peter the vision in Acts 10:14, 15, He is helping Peter rid himself of his prejudice toward the Gentiles (wrongly considered unclean) by using the analogy of clean and unclean meats. Peter understood clearly the meaning of the dream: “God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean” (v. 28). He did not arise from this vision and go eat pork; he arose from the vision, overcame his partiality and embraced people from every nation (vv. 34, 35).

In 1 Peter 1:15, 16, the apostle Peter wrote, “But as He who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is written, ‘Be holy, for I am holy.’ ” As we have already observed, this was a direct quote from Leviticus 11:44. Although there are many ways to be holy as God is holy, surely what we put in our bodies is still one of them! There are some who read this and wonder if perhaps it would be better to abstain from meats all together, especially when we compare the meat in the days of Leviticus with the meat produced today and when we consider that the whole point of keeping the food laws is to bring glory to God. Many within the Seventh-day Adventist Church have taken this view, especially as one observes the process that even clean meats must go through before reaching our plates. Before they are butchered, animals often experience abuse, overcrowded pens, and excessive hormone injections, not to mention infections and diseases. If the purpose of keeping the food laws is to glorify God, perhaps a wholistic vegetarian or vegan diet is best way to live these days.

True obedience is a response to God’s grace (Titus 2:11). The more we understand His deep love for us, the more willing we are to instantly obey Him, even when we don’t understand why He’s given the command. This doesn’t mean we should obey God blindly or that we can’t ask questions, discuss, or debate ideas (Isa. 1:18), but it does mean that even when we don’t understand why God commands certain things, it is always wise to obey while we are asking the questions.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`More than health, how is diet connected to holiness?`

`What are ways the deeper connections between diet and holiness can be promoted today?`