---
title:  Springs of Sanitation
date:  23/08/2023
---

#### inVite

We’ve spent a lot of time dealing with the eating aspect of health in Leviticus 11, so let’s briefly turn our attention to the sanitation aspects and how these point to Jesus. Before germs were discovered, God prepared His people to avoid much of their contaminating effects. Chapters 11 to 15 are all about sanitation measures, the latter of which could be titled the “take a bath and wash your hands” chapter (Lev. 15:5–11, 21, 22, 27). In several places in chapter 11, God’s people are reminded not to touch contaminated people, things, and animals (vv. 8, 24, 26, 27, 31). They are also instructed to wash contaminated things and persons (vv. 25, 32, 35, 40). Instructions were also given for mitigating contagious diseases such as leprosy by isolating carriers (Lev. 13:4, 5, 31, 33, 46). All of this ahead-of-its-time instruction regarding cleanliness was not for the purpose of health alone, but primarily for the purpose of holiness (Lev. 11:43–45; 15:31). God’s people were to stand out among the pagan nations of the world.

Leviticus 11:36 is perhaps one of the most important verses in this chapter, as it has powerful gospel implications. This verse declares that the only thing that cannot be contaminated by impurity is a spring or fountain of water. Have you ever noticed how Jesus could touch people who were considered unclean by the rules in Leviticus and not become unclean Himself (Matt. 8:2)? It makes sense, given that Jesus is the Living Water (John 4:10) and the source of purity. Anyone who comes to Him, confessing and forsaking their sins, will be cleansed by Him (1 John 1:9).

But wait, there’s more! Jesus said that when we receive Him as our Savior, we become fountains of water in this world. In other words, you and I do not need to be victims of our environment. Instead, with Jesus living inside us, we can be conduits of purity and positive change in our churches, schools, and communities. Jesus promises to become in us a fountain of uncorruptible water “springing up into everlasting life” (John 4:14).

Even though our Savior grew up in the troubled town of Nazareth (John 1:46), He was able to live through the violence, addiction, lust, greed, and selfishness around Him. Today, He is more than willing to do the same through and with all who submit to His lordship in their lives.

**Meditate on Leviticus 11 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you personally through these texts?`

`What do you think the world would look like if we all allowed Jesus to transform us into fountains of positive change?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`