---
title:  God Is Love
date:   07/04/2026
---

Most Christians use the word ‘love’ to talk about God and who He is. 1 John 4:8 says, “God is love” (ERV). Notice that John doesn’t say, “God is loving.” No, John says, “God is love.” Love is who God is.

Some people have a hard time understanding God’s love. Maybe their past relationships weren’t very loving. So, their ideas about love aren’t perfect. Our ideas about God’s love must come from the Bible. The Bible shows us the truth about God and His love.

`What does 1 John 4:7–19 explain to us about love?`

God’s love is perfect and free. God’s love connects us to Him in a relationship: “So we know the love that God has for us, and we trust that love. God is love. Everyone who lives in love lives in God, and God lives in them” (1 John 4:16, ERV). God made us copies of Himself (Genesis 1:27). So, we are much the same as God. God made us to love and to want love. In the Hebrew language, an important word for love is ‘hesed.’ This word helps us understand God’s love for people. God’s love is loyal, caring, and dependable. Because God loves us, He protects us. We can trust Him.

God has many different names in the Bible. These names help us understand better the beauty of His love. Below are two examples of God’s names and what they mean:

**Adonai:** This name means ‘The Lord of all, who is the King forever.’ This name for God is used with His Promise (Genesis 15:2; Judges 6:15; Malachi 1:6; Psalm 97:5).

**Yahweh-Yireh:** This name means “ ‘The Lord will give me what I need’ ” (Genesis 22:13, 14, EASY).

The best example of God’s love is Jesus (John 3:16). Jesus died for sinners (Romans 5:8). God could have refused to give us Jesus. But He didn’t refuse to give us this gift. Because sin separated us from God (Isaiah 59:1, 2), Jesus came to end this separation (John 12:32). His whole life showed us God’s perfect love (John 14:9; Hebrews 1:3).

Many of God’s names show us He is holy. These names also show us His love. Read 1 Corinthians 13. Wherever you see the word “love,” replace it with ‘God.’ What does this substitution teach you about God? Now replace “love” with your name. How well do you “love” the same way as God?

`Because sin separated us from God (Isaiah 59:1, 2), Jesus came to end this separation (John 12:32).`