---
title:  The God Who Made Us
date:   08/04/2026
---

What are the first words of the Bible? You may know them in your heart: “In the beginning, God . . .” (Genesis 1:1, EASY). In the Hebrew language, the word for God in this verse is ‘Elohim.’ ‘Elohim’ can mean false gods. But ‘Elohim’also can mean an all-powerful God who is connected with the things He made. We may not understand everything about God. But He controls everything. God is so powerful that He can make something from nothing with His voice!

Genesis 2 uses a different name for God: ‘Yahweh.’ This name connects to ‘Elohim’ (Yahweh Elohim). ‘Yahweh’ is the same all-powerful God as ‘Elohim.’ But ‘Yahweh’ is a more personal name for God. Bible writers often use the name ‘Yahweh’ to talk about God’s Promise. God’s Promise shows the loving relationship He wants with His people.

`Compare what the Bible says about God in Genesis 1:1 with Genesis 2:7. What do you notice?`

Imagine a picture in your mind of the story in Genesis 2:7. Imagine God kneeling on the ground. He uses His hands to make the first human out of the dirt. “Then the Lord God took some soil [dirt] from the ground and he made a man. He breathed air into the nose of the man to give him life. So the man became alive” (Genesis 2:7, EASY). Look at how close God gets to Adam when He makes Him. He gets so close that He breathes the breath of life into Adam’s nose. The name “the Lord God,” or Yahweh, shows us a personal picture of God. Moses uses both names of God in the first two chapters of the Bible to help us understand God better.

The name “Elohim” shows us that God is all-powerful. The name “Yahweh” shows us that God wants to be close to us. Both names show us important parts of God: His control and His love. As Paul told the Athenians on Mars Hill: “But he is not far from any of us: ‘By [With] his power we live and move and exist [stay alive]’ ” (Acts 17:27, 28, ICB). We must seek to learn what the Bible tells us about God. Then we will grow in a relationship with Him. We must read all parts of the Bible, and not just one part. As we learn more about God, we will love Him more.

`Read what Elihu says about God in Job 36:24–33 and Job 37. Then read God’s announcement about His power in Job 38 and 39. What do these verses teach us about God?`