---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/04/2026
---

God invites His people to show everyone His love. To do that, we need to know God per­sonally ourselves. The best way to know about God is to read about Him in the Bible.

“The love of a human father for his son can’t compare to God’s love. No one can explain God’s love. No one can write the whole truth about it. You may think about God’s love every day of your life. You may study the Bible to try to understand God’s love. But we can’t fully understand or know everything about God’s love. There will always be more to learn and know about it. You may study God’s love for ages to come. But you will never understand fully why God loved us so much that He gave His Son to die for sinners. But we must try to understand His love as best we can. We must think about Jesus’ life and God’s plan to save us. The more we study the Bible, the more we will understand these important Bible truths.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 740, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think about the things you learned about God this week. Which idea did you like the most? How did it help you understand God better?`

`What else can you study about God to make your relationship with Him grow strong?`

`With a family member or friend, read or listen to Steps to Christ, chapter 1. Talk about it together. What new Bible truths about God and Jesus did this chapter make you think about?`

`Many people believe false ideas about God. Jesus came to share the truth about God. What can you do to share with people the Bible truth about God’s love?`

`Think some more about what you learned from Monday’s study. For sure, we are sinners. We are not holy. At the same time, the Bible says that God’s people must live holy lives. God is holy. He invites us to be holy. But what does it really mean to live a holy life? Read 1 Peter 1:13–16; Romans 6:22; and Hebrews 12:14 for the answer.`