---
title:  War In Heaven
date:  24/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 John 4:8, 16; 1 John 4:7–16; Ezekiel 28:12–19; Isaiah 14:12–15; Revelation 12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “King of Babylon, you thought you were the bright morning star. But now you have fallen from heaven! You once [in the past] brought down nations. But now you have been thrown down to the earth!” (Isaiah 14:12, NIrV).

MANY THINKERS try to explain how evil started. Some thinkers say that evil was always part of life from the beginning. These thinkers believe we really can’t know good without knowing evil. Other people believe that God made everything perfect. But then evil happened. During Bible times, Greeks believed evil started when a young woman named Pandora opened a locked box. The box was filled with all the bad things on earth. (But this story doesn’t explain how the evils got in the box.)

The Bible tells us a different story about how evil started. The Bible tells us that God is loving and all-powerful (1 Chronicles 29:10, 11). God also is perfect (Matthew 5:48). So, everything God made was perfect, too (Deuteronomy 32:4). How, then, did evil and sin start on a perfect earth? Genesis 3 tells us that Adam and Eve’s sin caused evil and death.

But before Adam and Eve sinned, evil already happened in the heart of Lucifer in heaven. Then Lucifer used the snake to lie to Eve (Genesis 3:1–5). So, if we want to know how evil started, we need to look at what happened before Adam and Eve sinned.