---
title:  Nature Shows God’s Love 
date:  25/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God made everything on this earth beautiful and perfect. But then Satan made the earth ugly with sin.

`Read 1 John 4:8, 16. These verses teach us that “God is love” (ERV). How does this Bible truth help us to understand who God is and how He works?`

“God is love” (1 John 4:8, 16, ERV). This Bible truth helps us to understand three important ideas. First, love must be shared. We see this important idea in the Godhead. The Godhead is made of One God who is Three Persons: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Three Persons in the Godhead share Their love and power with each other. God also shares His love with the human family. Second, everything that God does shows His love. We see God’s love in the things that He made, His saving acts, and His punishments. That is why Ellen G. White writes, “God’s punishments show us His love as much as His mercy does. God’s work as Judge is important to His government. His punishment against sin and evil comes from His love.”

—The Desire of Ages, page 762, adapted. God’s love does not change. Third, God can’t be blamed for sin. Everything that God does shows His love. Because God is love, sin did not start with God.

But did God really need to make life on earth and on other planets? No. God chose to make life because He wanted to. God made everything to show His love. He made humans because He wanted a family. God wanted to share His love with His human children. God also made humans free to love Him back and to love other people, too. (Read also Mark 12:30, 31.)

`Spend some time in nature. Look at the plants and animals around you. Yes, sin destroyed much of the beautiful things in nature that God made. At the same time, how does nature continue to show you God’s love? What do the beautiful things we see in nature teach us about hope?`