---
title:  Love And The Freedom To Choose 
date:  26/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 John 4:7–16. What do these verses teach us about our freedom to choose? Why is this freedom so important to us when we love people and accept their love?`

Silk flowers can be beautiful. But they don’t have any smell and don’t bloom the same as real flowers. Robots can do many tasks. But they are not alive, and they have no feelings. Without life or freedom of choice, we cannot give, grow, or share love. So, God made angels (including Lucifer) and humans free to make their own choices. This freedom includes our being able to make the wrong choice.

As we read in yesterday’s study, John tells us that “God is love” (1 John 4:7–16, ERV). Because God is love, He gives us everything we need to grow in love and in wisdom. God showed His love to us by sending His own Son to die for our sins. We show God we are thankful for His love when we love each other. Our love for each other comes from God. This love is the best and strongest proof that God lives in our hearts and that we live in Him. So, we must be careful with our freedom. We can easily make bad choices the same as Lucifer. He chose to fight a war against God in heaven.

Some people may say, “Yes, I know that freedom of choice is important. But if God knew that Lucifer was going to sin, why did God make Lucifer?” Is sin God’s fault because He made Lucifer?

This question is very hard to answer. Other questions need to be answered first, including, “What does the word ‘responsible’ mean?” Also, “What is sin, and when did it start?” No one can fully explain these mysteries. So, we must be careful not to try to guess the answers.

God never wanted sin to be part of our lives. God only allowed sin to happen. At the cross, God accepted the punishment for our sin because He wanted to end sin forever. When we think about evil, we always must remember that God Himself accepted our punishment for sin and evil (read Romans 5:6–11). God suffered from sin and evil worse than we suffered.

God gave us the freedom to choose. This gift can change our lives in powerful ways. So, we must make wise choices. What important decisions are you ready to make? How much will your choices “cost” you and other people?