---
title:  Sin Is A Mystery 
date:  27/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Ezekiel 28:12–19. What do these verses teach us about how sin started? Why is the start of sin a mystery?`

Ezekiel wrote most of his book in word pictures and symbols. These symbols show us what will happen in the end times. Ezekiel also wrote about persons, animals, or objects in his day to show us deeper Bible truth. In Ezekiel 28:1–10, we read about the king of Tyre. In Ezekiel’s day, Tyre was a rich city by the Mediterranean Sea. God says that the king of Tyre is a powerful leader. The king brags that he sits on the throne of the gods “ ‘with the seas around me’ ” (Ezekiel 28:2, NLV; also read Ezekiel 28:8). But God says that the king of Tyre only is a man.

In Ezekiel 28:12–19, the king of Tyre becomes a word picture for Lucifer: “ ‘You were in Eden, the garden of God’ ” (Ezekiel 28:13, ERV). “ ‘You were one of the chosen Cherubs [angels with four wings] who spread your wings over my [God’s] throne. I put you on the holy mountain of God’ ” (Ezekiel 28:14, ERV).

Next, we read one of the most important things that the Lord says about Lucifer: “ ‘You were good and honest when I created [made] you, but then you became evil’ ” (Ezekiel 28:15, ERV). Do you see that God made Lucifer perfect? But God also made Lucifer free. So Lucifer can choose to do evil.

Lucifer chose to sin. He sinned because he believed he was a very important person. Lucifer did not thank God for making him and honoring him above all the angels. Lucifer wanted more praise and honor. How did this happen in the heart of a perfect angel who lived in a perfect place? The answer to this question is a mystery.

“We can’t explain sin. Sin is a mystery. There was no reason for sin. If we try to explain sin, we give a reason for it. That is the same thing as excusing it. Sin happened in a perfect place, but there was no excuse for sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Truth About Angels, page 30, adapted.

Paul says, “Give thanks no matter what happens”

(1 Thessalonians 5:18, NIrV). How can these words encourage us during hard times when we feel pity for ourselves?