---
title:  The Danger Of Pride 
date:  28/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Revelation shows us two very different cities: Jerusalem and Babylon. Each city is a symbol for spiritual truth. The New Jerusalem is a symbol for God’s kingdom. Babylon is a symbol for Satan’s kingdom. Satan’s kingdom pretends to be the same as God’s kingdom. Satan’s kingdom tries to remove God and His kingdom from men’s hearts. Several times in the Bible we see that God tells His people to leave Babylon for the Promised Land.

We see this call from God in the story about Abram. God asks Abram to move from Ur to the land of Canaan (Genesis 11:31–Genesis 12:9). Ur is a city in the land of Babylon in Abram’s day. Much later, after many long years, the Jews leave Babylon and return to Jerusalem (Ezra 2). In the book of Revelation, God calls His people out of end-time Babylon (Revelation 18:4). God’s people will live with Him on Mount Zion and in the New Jerusalem (Revelation 14:1; Revelation 21:1–3, 10).

`What happened in heaven and on earth because of Lucifer’s pride? For the answer, read Isaiah 14:12–15.`

In the Bible, the city of Babylon is a symbol of an evil religious power. This power fights against God and His kingdom. The king of Babylon is a word picture for pride. God told King Nebuchadnezzar that Babylon only was the gold head on the statue that the king saw in his dream. The statue showed the different kingdoms on the earth after Babylon (Daniel 2:37–43). But King Nebuchadnezzar did not pay attention to God. The king made a gold statue to show everyone that his kingdom will continue forever. Then the king commanded everyone to worship the statue (Daniel 3). As we saw with the king of Tyre (Ezekiel 28:12–19), the king of Babylon also is a word picture for Lucifer.

Isaiah 14:3–11 says that the king of Babylon lost his kingdom because of his pride. Then, Isaiah 14:12–15 tells us that pride also caused Lucifer’s fall in heaven. The Bible explains that Lucifer planned to make himself king of all the angels. Lucifer wanted to be the same as God (Isaiah 14:14). Lucifer told lies about God to other angels. Lucifer said that God was evil. But really, the evil was in Lucifer’s heart. This story shows us how evil first started.

Why is it easy to brag about ourselves? How does the Cross help us to empty our hearts of all pride?