---
title:  Lucifer Continues His War On Earth
date:  29/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Revelation 12. What does this chapter teach about the war that came to earth from heaven?`

God did not throw Lucifer out of heaven because he disagreed with God. God threw him out because Lucifer started a war. Revelation 12 tells us that Lucifer and his angels fought against Jesus and His angels. Lucifer is named “a giant red dragon” (Revelation 12:3, ERV). “This giant dragon is that old snake, the one called the devil or Satan, who leads the whole world into the wrong way” (Revelation 12:9, ERV). This same dragon “says bad things about our brothers to God day and night” (Revelation 12:10, WE). In Revelation 12:7, Jesus is named Michael, which means “who is the same as God?”

Some people believe that “Michael” only is an angel. That is because Jude 1:9 says that Michael is the leader of the angels. But the book of Daniel also talks about Michael. Each end-time dream in Daniel ends with Jesus and His everlasting kingdom. As we see, Jesus’ kingdom is shown by different symbols:

The rock that no human hands cut (Daniel 2:34, NIrV)

“A Son of Man” (Daniel 7:13, NLV)

“The commander of the Lord’s army” (Daniel 8:11, NIrV)

Michael, the prince (Daniel 12:1, NIrV)

In the Old Testament, we see that the Angel of the Lord is God (Exodus 3:1–6; Acts 7:30–33). So, in the same way, Michael must be the same Person. That Person is Jesus.

Revelation 12 shows us three things about the war between Lucifer and God. (1) The war started in heaven with Lucifer and his angels. (2) Jesus won a mighty battle in this war at the cross. And (3) Satan continues to fight against God’s end-time people. “God did not make Lucifer leave his job right away. . . . Again and again, God offered to pardon Lucifer.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 495, 496, adapted.

In the end, Satan and his angels “did not win the fight and no longer were they allowed to stay in heaven” (Revelation 12:8, WE; read Luke 10:18). The problem now, of course, is that Satan and his angels came to the earth.

`The war that Lucifer started in heaven continues on earth. How do you see the war continuing today? How can we win?`