---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Why was Sin Permitted?” pages 33–43, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “The Origin of Evil,” pages 492–504, in The Great Controversy.

“There was no chance or hope for God to save Satan and his angels. Satan and his angels enjoyed the glory of heaven in the past. They saw God’s royal beauty. But they fought against God anyway. There was nothing else God could show them or do to help them to change. Satan and his angels fought against God while they were with Him in heaven. So, God could not help them anymore. Satan and his angels were filled with doubt. They were jealous. They complained against God. God didn’t force Satan and his angels to change or to remove doubt from their jealous hearts. But Satan and his angels must be punished. Their punishment must show how deeply they sinned against God and everything they left in heaven.” —Ellen G. White, Confrontation, page 21, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Is God responsible for sin on this earth? Give reasons for your answer.`

`The Cross shows us how God solves the sin problem. Why is the Cross important to our understanding about how evil started?`

`Satan has caused 6,000 years of sin and suffering on this earth. For sure, Satan now should fully know that his fight against God has caused bad things to happen. Why then does Satan continue his war against God?`

`In Matthew 5:43–48, Jesus talks about God’s love for all humans. God’s love for us never fails. God’s love is the model for how we should love other people. How can you show God’s love to your family and to church members?`

`Peter warns us about Satan: “Control yourselves and be careful! The devil is your enemy, and he goes around like [the same as] a roaring lion looking for someone to attack and eat” (1 Peter 5:8, ERV). Next, read also Ephesians 6:10–20. How can we protect ourselves from the devil’s evil tricks and lies?`