---
title:  The Fires Of Hell
date:  26/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Mark 9:42–48; Malachi 4:1; Ezekiel 18:20–22; Acts 2:29, 34, 35; 1 John 5:3–12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Test everything. Keep what is good” (1 Thessalonians 5:21, ERV).

ITALIAN POET Dante Alighieri (a.d.a.d. 1265–1321) wrote a very famous poem named The Divine Comedy. His poem is about the spirit of a dead person. In the poem, the spirit went to hell, which was in the earth. Or the spirit went to a place named Purgatory. The spirit goes to Purgatory to bathe in flames to take away their sin. After the spirit’s sins are burned away, the spirit can go to heaven, which is also named Paradise. Then the spirit will live with God Himself.

The poem is a make-believe story, of course. Sad to say, this poem caused people to believe false ideas about what happens to the spirit after death. These false ideas are part of the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church today. Catholics believe that a person’s spirit stays alive after his or her body dies. Then the spirit goes to hell, purgatory, or heaven right away. Many Protestants also believe that the spirit never dies. These Protestants believe the spirit goes right away to heaven or hell after a person’s death. False ideas about what happens when we die have caused Christians to believe many terrible lies.

This week, we will look at some of these false ideas. We also will learn what the Bible really says about what happens to us when we die.