---
title:  Worms That Never Die? 
date:  27/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Mark 9:42–48 with Isaiah 66:24. These verses talk about worms that eat dead bodies. The Bible says the worms do not die. What do these verses mean?`

Some Bible thinkers believe that the noun “worm” (Mark 9:48, ICB, NLV, WE) is a word picture for the spirit of an evil person. These Bible thinkers believe that after a person dies, his or her spirit f﻿loats to hell where it never dies. There, the spirit suffers everlasting punishment.

But this idea is foolish. As we learned, the Bible teaches us that a person’s spirit sleeps after his or her body dies. We need to understand Isaiah 66:24 to know what Jesus is talking about in Mark 9:42–48. “Bible writers use the word ‘worm’ the same way as many worms. So, one ‘worm’ in Mark and Isaiah do not mean only one worm. The word ‘worm’ really means many worms that eat dead bodies.”

—Robert G. Bratcher and Eugene A. Nida, A Translator’s Handbook on the Gospel of Mark (London: United Bible Societies, 1961), page 304, adapted.

Mark 9:48 is a quotation from Isaiah 66:24, which says: “ ‘They [the saved] will go out and see the dead bodies of the people who sinned against me. The worms that eat them will never die. The fires that burn them will never stop’ ” (Isaiah 66:24, ICB).

This verse shows us a scary picture about the future. We see God’s enemies dead on the ground. Fire burns up their bodies. Worms eat the bodies that the fire doesn’t burn. Or maybe the worms eat the bodies first. Then the fire burns up the bodies. We are not sure. What we do know is that Isaiah never talks about any spirits that escape both the fires and the worms and that then fly into hell.

`But what about the “worms” that never die? The language about the worms in Isaiah 66:24 is a word picture. Jesus uses this same word picture in Mark 9:48. This word picture doesn’t mean that the worms live forever. (Everlasting worms? What?!) What Jesus wants us to understand is that the worms do not leave their job unfinished. The worms continue to eat the bodies of the evil dead until these bodies are destroyed. No wonder Jesus says that it is better for someone to enter God’s kingdom with a hand, foot, or eye missing. What good is a perfect body that fire and worms will destroy (Mark 9:42–48)?`