---
title:  The Fires In Hell 
date:  28/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read what the Bible says in Malachi 4:1 and Jude 1:7 about hell. How can these verses help us better understand the teaching about “fire that burns forever” (Jude 1:7, WE) and the “ ‘fire of [from] hell that cannot be put out’ ” (Mark 9:43, NLV; read also Matthew 18:8)?`

The English words “forever” and “everlasting” come from the Hebrew word “‘olam,” which in the Greek language is “aionios.” “Forever” or “everlasting” can have different meanings. When the Bible talks about “forever” and God, then the word “forever” shows us that God never dies and has always been alive. (Read Deuteronomy 33:27.) When the Bible talks about “forever” and humans (Exodus 21:6, NKJV), then the word “forever” must happen in a human lifetime (about 70–90 years). So, when the Bible talks about “everlasting” fire, we must understand that this fire will not go out until it fully destroys what it burns. (Read Matthew 18:8 and Matthew 25:41 for examples of everlasting fire.) Nothing will be left of evil people when this fire ends (Malachi 4:1).

The teaching that evil people will be punished in hell and burn forever and ever is an ugly lie. If God punishes evil people forever, then sin and evil will continue forever, too. Also, we must remember that all human life comes from God (Deuteronomy 32:39; Psalm 36:9). God says, “ ‘I don’t enjoy seeing people die . . . not even evil people!’ ” (Ezekiel 33:11, ERV). So why would God let evil people suffer in hell forever? Also, the Bible says that evil people will be punished and “judged by what they had done” (Revelation 20:12, ERV). So, why would God give humans punishment that never ends?

All everlasting fire or fire that burns forever in the Bible happens after the saints spend 1,000 years in heaven with Jesus. Jesus will bring His people back to this earth after the 1,000 years are over. Then God will wake up the evil dead. Revelation 20 says that they will burn in the lake of fire until they are gone. So, we shouldn’t say that hell is a place that people go to now and that the fires in hell will burn forever and never stop.

`What do hell and the grave teach us about God’s love?`