---
title:  A Second Chance In Purgatory? 
date:  29/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Roman Catholic Church teaches that some people do not go to hell when they die. But these people aren’t ready for heaven. So, they go to purgatory. As we already learned, the Catholic Church teaches that a person’s spirit can go to purgatory after he or she dies. There, in purgatory, a person bathes in flames to take away his or her sins. Purgatory is not the same as hell. Catholics teach that purgatory and hell are two different things. When the spirit is clean from sin, then the spirit can fly to paradise or heaven. People who are alive can pray for the spirit of the dead person who is in purgatory. The prayers, good works, and offerings of the living can help the spirit get out of purgatory faster.

`Read Ecclesiastes 9:10; Ezekiel 18:20–22; and Hebrews 9:27. How do these verses show that the teaching about purgatory is false?`

The teaching about purgatory mixes two false ideas: a burning hell and prayers for the dead. People who believe in the Bible can’t accept any of these false ideas. We have four reasons why.We know that (1) the dead sleep in their graves. They don’t know anything that happens anymore (Ecclesiastes 9:10). (2) The holy life of one person can’t be given to another sinner (Ezekiel 18:20–22). (3) Only Jesus can save us. Jesus asks God to forgive us for our sins (1 Timothy 2:5). And (4) after we die, God will judge us. We get no second chance to reject sin and accept God (Hebrews 9:27).

Worse, purgatory is a false teaching that lies about God and His love. “Satan’s work since his fall is to make God look bad. Satan invented the idea that the spirit lives forever and never dies. . . . Satan also lied about hell. Satan says that sinners in hell never stop burning in fire. Purgatory is Satan’s idea, too. These false teachings lie about God. They cause people to believe that God is mean, nasty, and doesn’t forgive anyone.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript 51 (December 10), 1890. This false view teaches that the dead aren’t asleep. They’re in purgatory where they suffer until someone gets them out. Satan lied to Eve. Satan continues to lie to humans today.

`Jesus already saved us. Why is understanding Bible teachings so important, too?`