---
title:  The Spirits Of The Dead In Heaven?
date:  30/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

(Acts 2:29, 34, 35)

Protestants don’t believe in purgatory. But many Protestants believe that the spirits from saved people go to live with God in heaven after they die. Some people say that these “spirits” leave their bodies when they die. Other people say that these “spirits” are given a new spiritual body. They believe this body is not made of flesh but is made from God’s bright light.

These ideas are false. They don’t support the Bible truth about the Second Coming and the final judgment. The final judgment is the time when God will judge His people before Jesus comes back. God will wake up His sleeping followers at the Second Coming. Why will God wake up His followers for a judgment, if the spirits of holy people already are enjoying heaven?

`Read Acts 2:29, 34, 35 and 1 Corinthians 15:16–18. How do these verses help us understand what happens when we die? How will God wake up His followers?`

The Bible teaches us that a few people already are in heaven. Some of these people were alive when God took them. That’s what happened with Enoch (Genesis 5:24) and Elijah (2 Kings 2:9–11). Or God woke them up from the dead. That’s what happened to Moses (Jude 9) and the people that woke up from the dead when Jesus did (Matthew 27:51–53).

The grave is a place where dead people sleep. As we learned in Revelation 6:9–11, the spirits “under the altar” who cry to God are a word picture. This word picture shows that God must punish evil people. God will punish the evil people who killed Jesus’ followers. So, this word picture about the altar isn’t proof that the spirit lives forever after death. If the spirits under the altar are real, then they aren’t  enjoying their everlasting life in heaven. So, the dead, both the saved and the lost, are not spirits separated by death from their bodies. These spirits are not floating around heaven, where they wait to be joined again to their bodies at the Second Coming.

Dead people don’t need to wake up at the Second Coming if the saved dead can go to heaven right away when they die. Sad to say, we often listen to this false teaching at Christian funerals, don’t we?