---
title:  The Bible’s View About Hell 
date:  01/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 John 5:3–12. Why does John in these verses limit everlasting life only to people who are in Jesus?`

1 John 5:11, 12 teaches us that our spirits don’t live after our bodies die. To understand these verses, we must remember that “God is the only one who never dies” (1 Timothy 6:16, ERV; read also 1 Timothy 6:15). Life starts with God, too (Psalm 36:9; Colossians 1:15–17; Hebrews 1:2).

When Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit, sin entered humans (Genesis 3). All humans came under the curse of death. Our bodies no longer lived forever. We lost the gift of everlasting life. But our loving God made a plan to save us and give us the everlasting life that we lost in Eden. As Paul says, “God chose us to belong to Christ [Jesus] before the world was created [made]. He chose us to be holy and without blame in his eyes. He loved us” (Ephesians 1:4, NIrV).

In Romans 5:12–21, Paul explains that “sin came into the world [this earth] because of what one man did. And with sin came death” (ERV). “So one sin of Adam brought the punishment of death to all people. But in the same way, one good act that Christ did makes all people right with God” (Romans 5:18, ICB). “And this [act] brings life forever through [by] Jesus Christ our Lord” (Romans 5:21, ICB). Paul says that the real Adam brought sin and death. We must accept this Bible truth if we want to understand the Bible. John adds, “God has given us eternal [everlasting] life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life. But the person who does not have the Son of God does not have life” (1 John 5:11, 12, ICB).

We understand these verses from John and Paul better when we read what Jesus says: “ ‘Everyone who sees the Son and believes in him has eternal [everlasting] life. I will raise [wake] them up on the last day’ ” (John 6:40, ERV). Jesus also says, “ ‘I am the One Who raises [wakes] the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies’ ” (John 11:25, NLV).

Everlasting life is a gift from God. Only saved people in Jesus have everlasting life. The Bible doesn’t teach that a person goes to heaven or hell when he or she dies. The Bible also doesn’t teach that the spirit lives forever or that all humans will be saved. These teachings are very popular. But they aren’t in the Bible.