---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The First Great Deception,” pages 531–550; “Can Our Dead Speak to Us?” pages 551–562, in The Great Controversy.

“The teaching that the spirit lives forever is false. This false teaching comes from the idea that a person’s spirit continues to live after he or she dies. The Bible doesn’t teach this false idea or the false idea that sinners suffer forever in hell after they die. These false ideas go against the Bible, our thinking, and our natural feelings. But many people accept this popular belief. They believe that saved people who died are in heaven. These saved ones can see everything that happens here on the earth. They know what is happening in the lives of their friends. But how can the dead be happy knowing about the troubles of the living? How can the dead be happy seeing the evil behavior of their loved ones? How can the dead enjoy watching their loved ones suffer and feel pain in this life? How can the dead enjoy heaven if they are worried about their friends on earth? Do you understand why this is an ugly lie?”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 545, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Have you ever talked with someone who believes that the saved go to heaven right away and the lost go to hell when they die? People who believe this idea are very stubborn. Why do people refuse to stop believing that the lost are suffering forever in the fires of hell? Maybe they hate the idea of their family and friends in the grave? Do you see that false ideas are very powerful?`

`Most Christians teach that the spirit lives and never dies. What should we do together to announce the Bible truth about what happens to our spirit and body when we die?`

`What are some non-Christian ideas that have replaced Bible truth and become popular teachings in the Christian churches today? How can we protect ourselves from these false ideas?`