src/en/2019-02-er/12/01.md, before:

---
title: 'What Have They Seen In Your House'
date: 15/06/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Chronicles 32:25, 31; Ruth 1:14–18; 1 Corinthians 7:12–15; 1 Corinthians 4:16.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “But God chose you to be his people. You are royal priests [religious leaders]. You are a holy nation. You are God’s special treasure. You are all these things so that you can give him praise. God brought you out of darkness into his wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9, NIrV).

**WHEN SOMEONE COMES TO VISIT YOUR HOUSE**, what do they see? Some people came from Babylon to visit King Hezekiah. Later, God’s special messenger, Isaiah, asked the King, “ ‘What did they see in your house?’ ” (Isaiah 39:4, ERV). How will visitors to your house answer that question?

What do people see in your house? What do the angels from heaven see? What spirit fills our homes? Is it a spirit of love? Is your home a house of prayer? Or is there anger, hate, and disagreement there? Will someone who comes to visit your home see Jesus in your family members?

These are important questions that we all need to ask ourselves. This week, we will look at some of the things that can make your home life wonderful. We know that no family is perfect. We all have our troubles. What can we do to make the home a wonderful place?

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/12/01.md, after:

---
title: 'What Have They Seen In Your House'
date: 15/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Chronicles 32:25, 31; Ruth 1:14–18; 1 Corinthians 7:12–15; 1 Corinthians 4:16.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “But God chose you to be his people. You are royal priests [religious leaders]. You are a holy nation. You are God’s special treasure. You are all these things so that you can give him praise. God brought you out of darkness into his wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9, NIrV).

**WHEN SOMEONE COMES TO VISIT YOUR HOUSE**, what do they see? Some people came from Babylon to visit King Hezekiah. Later, God’s special messenger, Isaiah, asked the King, “ ‘What did they see in your house?’ ” (Isaiah 39:4, ERV). How will visitors to your house answer that question?

What do people see in your house? What do the angels from heaven see? What spirit fills our homes? Is it a spirit of love? Is your home a house of prayer? Or is there anger, hate, and disagreement there? Will someone who comes to visit your home see Jesus in your family members?

These are important questions that we all need to ask ourselves. This week, we will look at some of the things that can make your home life wonderful. We know that no family is perfect. We all have our troubles. What can we do to make the home a wonderful place?
