---
title:  "KING HEZEKIAH’S MISTAKE (2 Chronicles 32:25, 31)"
date:   16/06/2019
---



`Read the story about the visitors from Babylon who came to see King Hezekiah after he was healed. You can read the story in 2 Chronicles 32:25, 31; Isaiah 38; and Isaiah 39. Why did the men from Babylon visit the king? What happened when they came to see him?`

The Bible tells us that King Hezekiah was very sick. Then God healed him. Later, some Babylonian leaders visited King Hezekiah. They wanted to learn how the king got better. King Hezekiah does not tell the men from Babylon about how God healed him. That is odd. Why? Because in Isaiah 38, King Hezekiah is very grateful to God for healing him. But in Isaiah 39, King Hezekiah does not say anything about what God did for him at all! 

“God left Hezekiah alone to test him and to know everything that was in Hezekiah’s heart” (2 Chronicles 32:31, ERV). The visit of the men from Babylon was very important. Did King Hezekiah ask God to help him be a good witness? No. The king did not ask for advice from God’s special messengers or from Israel’s holy leaders. 

`We should always show our faith in God, even in our home when we think no one is watching. Hezekiah’s story teaches us this important lesson. What other lessons about being loyal to God does the king’s story teach us?`

People who come to a Christian home will have the chance to meet Jesus’ followers. That is why every visit that people make to your home is important. Very few people who visit your home will start talking with you about spiritual things. So, Christians must find ways to share the Good News in a warm and loving way. 

God does not want you to show off your house to your guests. Or brag about all the nice things you own. Sure, these things are beautiful gifts from God. Maybe these things will even cause your guests to praise God for being so good to you. Yes, God wants your guests to “give him praise” (1 Peter 2:9, NIrV). But more than that, God wants your guests to see from you how much they need Jesus. King Hezekiah saw how much he needed Jesus when he got sick. God healed Hezekiah. This miracle shows us what Jesus will do for us (Ephesians 2:4–6). Sin makes us sick. But Jesus came to heal us and “[give] us a seat with him in the heavens” (Ephesians 2:6, ICB).