---
title: 'Family First'
date: 17/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Who are the first people we want to share the Good News with? Our families. As Christians, one of the most important places where we can serve Jesus is in our homes.

`What does John 1:40–42 teach us about sharing our faith at home? Also, read Deuteronomy 6:6, 7 and Ruth 1:14–18 to help you answer the question.`

What did Andrew do? He did not just talk about Jesus. He helped Simon, his brother, to meet Jesus. From then on, Peter and Jesus had their own friendship. We can do what Andrew did too. We can tell our family members about Jesus. Then we can help them get to know who Jesus is. 

Do not forget the children in your family. They also need to know Jesus. Many times, people forget about sharing the Good News with kids. Some parents think that children will just go along with religion because the parents are religious. But that does not always happen. Yes, children and young people learn about Jesus from watching how adult Christians behave. But young people also need personal care and attention. They need the chance to get to know Jesus too. Deuteronomy 6 is clear: we must help our children learn about Jesus. We should make family worship a habit in the home. Put time into helping your children get to know God. Work hard to help them understand that Jesus loves them and died for their sins.

`What did Naomi do to help her sons’ wives learn about Jesus? What can we learn from Naomi to help us witness to our families? Read Ruth 1:8–22 for the answers.`

Ruth saw Naomi at the worst time in her life. Naomi lost her husband and two sons. Then she tried to push Ruth away. Later, Naomi told God that she was angry and hurt because of everything she lost (Ruth 1:15, 20, 21). What did Ruth do? She showed Naomi how much she loved her. Ruth also showed Naomi her deep love for God. Naomi was far from perfect. But Naomi helped Ruth to know who God was. Ruth shows us that young people can give their lives fully to a perfect God. Even if the mom or dad who tells them about God is not perfect!