---
title:  "PEACE THAT WINS"
date:   18/06/2019
---

`What advice does the New Testament give Christians who are married to people who do not believe in God? Read 1 Corinthians 7:12–15 and 1 Peter 3:1, 2 for the answer.`

In 1 Corinthians, Paul answers questions that Christians have about marriage. Believers are worried that God might be upset with them if they stay married to unbelievers. But Paul says God will not be angry with them for staying married to their husbands and wives who do not believe in Him. Marriage is very holy. It continues to be holy for a husband and wife even after only one of them becomes a Christian. The Christian partner brings Jesus into the home. He or she becomes a blessing to the other partner and their children too. 

At times, the husband or wife who does not believe in Jesus may decide to end the marriage. God always respects our choices. We are free to choose. He made us that way. That is why Paul says: “But if the husband or wife who is not a believer decides to leave, let them leave. When this happens, the brother or sister in Christ [Jesus] is free” (1 Corinthians 7:15, ERV). 

What are the best ways to win your husband or wife to Jesus? Be loving and kind. Show him or her that you are loyal to your marriage and to God. Serve your partner in love. But make sure you always put Jesus first (read Ephesians 5:21). As Christians, our first loyalty always must be to God. God wants us to honor our marriages and stay with our partners, even if they do not accept Jesus. But God does not want you to stay with a husband or wife who hits you or beats you because of your beliefs. 

`Do you know someone in your church who is married to someone who does not believe in Jesus? Is this church member having a hard time in his or her marriage? What can you do to help?`