src/en/2019-02-er/12/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Family Life And Sharing'
date: 19/06/2019
---

`Look at what the New Testament writers tell us to do: “Follow the way I live” (1 Corinthians 4:16, NLV; 1 Thessalonians 1:6). “Follow his [God’s] example” (Ephesians 5:1, NIrV). “Be like those who have faith” (Hebrews 6:12, ICB). “Copy their faith” (Hebrews 13:7, NIrV). “Follow what is good” (3 John 1:11, ERV). These verses show us that there is a strong connection between copying and witnessing. When we copy what we see other Christians do, how does that help us to become better witnesses?`

Children copy their parents and their brothers and sisters. Married people often copy each other too. We become the same as the people and the things we watch. The same thing can happen when people come to visit us in our homes. They get a chance to share our family life in some way. Many people have never seen a good example of marriage or family. So, they do not have a good example to follow. They may see how the spirit of Jesus makes a big difference in our homes. “We can change people’s lives by the way we live our lives around them. This power to change other people’s lives is very wonderful. We can use this power to help the people around us.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing, page 354, adapted. Married couples should invite other couples to their homes for a meal or to study the Bible together. Then their guests will see an example of Christians as they solve problems, communicate, and serve each other. In this way, visitors will get to see an example of Jesus.

`What do Jeremiah 17:9; John 2:25; and Romans 3:23 tell us? What do we need to be careful about when we try to be examples to other people?`

All humans are sinners. All humans make mistakes. So, we will never be perfect examples. We need to remember that. The New Testament tells us to follow believers who follow Jesus. God’s plan is for people to take hold of Him in faith as they see faith in the lives of Christians. We Christians are just as human and able to make mistakes as the people we witness to.

`How can you make your home a better example of God’s love?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/12/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Family Life And Sharing'
date: 19/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Look at what the New Testament writers tell us to do: “Follow the way I live” (1 Corinthians 4:16, NLV; 1 Thessalonians 1:6). “Follow his [God’s] example” (Ephesians 5:1, NIrV). “Be like those who have faith” (Hebrews 6:12, ICB). “Copy their faith” (Hebrews 13:7, NIrV). “Follow what is good” (3 John 1:11, ERV). These verses show us that there is a strong connection between copying and witnessing. When we copy what we see other Christians do, how does that help us to become better witnesses?`

Children copy their parents and their brothers and sisters. Married people often copy each other too. We become the same as the people and the things we watch. The same thing can happen when people come to visit us in our homes. They get a chance to share our family life in some way. Many people have never seen a good example of marriage or family. So, they do not have a good example to follow. They may see how the spirit of Jesus makes a big difference in our homes. “We can change people’s lives by the way we live our lives around them. This power to change other people’s lives is very wonderful. We can use this power to help the people around us.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing, page 354, adapted. Married couples should invite other couples to their homes for a meal or to study the Bible together. Then their guests will see an example of Christians as they solve problems, communicate, and serve each other. In this way, visitors will get to see an example of Jesus.

`What do Jeremiah 17:9; John 2:25; and Romans 3:23 tell us? What do we need to be careful about when we try to be examples to other people?`

All humans are sinners. All humans make mistakes. So, we will never be perfect examples. We need to remember that. The New Testament tells us to follow believers who follow Jesus. God’s plan is for people to take hold of Him in faith as they see faith in the lives of Christians. We Christians are just as human and able to make mistakes as the people we witness to.

`How can you make your home a better example of God’s love?`
