---
title:  "FRIENDSHIP"
date:   20/06/2019
---

**The Bible tells us we should be kind to people, help them, and welcome them into our homes. Read the stories below. How do these stories show us the important rules talked about in Isaiah 58:6, 7, 10–12; Romans 12:13; and 1 Peter 4:9?**

`Abraham and Sarah (Genesis 18:1–8)`

`Rebekah and her family (Genesis 24:15–20; Genesis 31–33)`

`Zacchaeus (Luke 19:1–9)`

Everyone needs rest, food, and friendship. When we give these things to people, we show them Jesus’ love. Jesus taught that feeding the hungry was important. Our giving a drink to someone who is thirsty is important too. When we give these things to people, we also give them to Jesus (Matthew 25:34–40). We can use our homes to serve Jesus too. Why not invite neighbors to share a meal with your family? Or let someone stay with you who needs to heal from a broken marriage? Maybe you can invite someone to your home to pray or study the Bible. When God’s love touches our hearts, we will want to share His love with people.

Some families feel that they cannot invite people into their homes. They make excuses. They worry about problems that may happen if they invite neighbors in their homes. Or they feel they do not have enough time or energy for guests. Some people are shy. They do not know how to invite people to their homes. They say their houses are not very big or nice enough for guests. But we must not think that our showing Christian love to people in our homes means we are showing off. We do not need to have a fancy party for our guests. We can show them Jesus by giving them a simple meal.

`How does your home show your love for Jesus?`