src/en/2019-02-er/12/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 21/06/2019
---

Ellen G. White, “A Powerful Christian Witness,” pages 35–39; “Attitude [thoughts and feelings] Toward [that you show] an Unbelieving [does not believe] Companion [husband or wife],” pages 348–352, in The Adventist Home; “Ministry of the Home,” pp. 349–355, in The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing; “The Ambassadors [leaders] From Babylon,” pages 340–348, in Prophets [special messengers] and Kings.

“A home that is true to Jesus can change human hearts and lives and make them better. This power is stronger than any sermon that a person can preach. . . .

“We may not think that we can change very many lives and make them better. We may think that we do not have many skills. We may believe that we do not have many chances either. But we can use our homes to touch lives. And if we do, God can make many wonderful things happen in the lives of the people we welcome into our families.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pages 352, 355, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Are there people in your class who are Christians today because a Christian family invited them home and showed them Jesus’ love? What did your class member like about this Christian home? What was it about the home that led them to accept Jesus? What can your class learn from this experience?`

`2. What can you do to help a family with a father or mother who does not believe in Jesus?`

`3. As a class, talk about the things that make it hard for you to have faith. Make a list of these problems. Next to each problem, write an answer that solves it.`

`4. In our homes, we witness to our kids, to our husbands or wives who do not believe in Jesus, other family members, and visitors. It is not always easy to witness in our homes. We are not perfect people. But we do our best to show the love of a perfect Savior. One way we can do that is to invite people into our homes to meet Jesus. What do people see when they come visit your home? What can you do to make your home a better place for visitors? How can you help them to see Jesus more?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/12/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 21/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Ellen G. White, “A Powerful Christian Witness,” pages 35–39; “Attitude [thoughts and feelings] Toward [that you show] an Unbelieving [does not believe] Companion [husband or wife],” pages 348–352, in The Adventist Home; “Ministry of the Home,” pp. 349–355, in The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing; “The Ambassadors [leaders] From Babylon,” pages 340–348, in Prophets [special messengers] and Kings.

“A home that is true to Jesus can change human hearts and lives and make them better. This power is stronger than any sermon that a person can preach. . . .

“We may not think that we can change very many lives and make them better. We may think that we do not have many skills. We may believe that we do not have many chances either. But we can use our homes to touch lives. And if we do, God can make many wonderful things happen in the lives of the people we welcome into our families.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pages 352, 355, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Are there people in your class who are Christians today because a Christian family invited them home and showed them Jesus’ love? What did your class member like about this Christian home? What was it about the home that led them to accept Jesus? What can your class learn from this experience?`

`2. What can you do to help a family with a father or mother who does not believe in Jesus?`

`3. As a class, talk about the things that make it hard for you to have faith. Make a list of these problems. Next to each problem, write an answer that solves it.`

`4. In our homes, we witness to our kids, to our husbands or wives who do not believe in Jesus, other family members, and visitors. It is not always easy to witness in our homes. We are not perfect people. But we do our best to show the love of a perfect Savior. One way we can do that is to invite people into our homes to meet Jesus. What do people see when they come visit your home? What can you do to make your home a better place for visitors? How can you help them to see Jesus more?`
