---
title:  God’s Wonderful Mercy and Love
date:   10/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 136; Psalm 51; Psalm 130; Psalm 113; Psalm 123; Psalm 103.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Lord, I will praise you among the nations [people groups]. I will sing about you among the people of [on] the earth. Great [wonderful] is your love. It reaches to [touches] the heavens [skies]. Your truth reaches to the skies [clouds]” (Psalm 57:9, 10, NIrV).

The poets who wrote the book of Psalms understand that they are poor and needy. They need God’s mercy to save them. They also know that they can’t earn God’s mercy with their good behavior. So, they have nothing good to offer God.

The Book of Psalms teaches us that people must depend fully on God’s mercy. We can be thankful that God’s mercy is everlasting. The history of God’s people shows us this Bible truth. So does everything God made (Psalm 136). God is everlasting, but human life is the same as grass. We live only a short time on this earth and then die. So, God pities us humans and makes our strength new (Psalm 103:3, 5, 15). God gives us the promise of everlasting life.

God’s people know that they pray to a Father in heaven who loves them (Psalm 103:13; Psalm 68:5; Psalm 89:26). Daily they have new experiences that teach them about God’s mercy and love. These experiences help them to worship and serve God more. Because God is so wonderful, His people want to worship and serve only Him.