---
title:  God’s Mercy Continues Forever
date:   11/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 136. What is the most important Bible truth in this poem? Where does the poet find proof for this idea?`

Psalm 136 asks God’s people to praise the Lord for His mercy. God’s people, Israel, can see His mercy in the things that He made (Psalm 136:4-9) and in their history (Psalm 136:10-22). The word “mercy” comes from the Hebrew word “_khesed_,” which means God’s love never fails or changes.

The Lord is the “God of gods” and “the Lord of lords” (Psalm 136:2, 3, ERV). These special names for God do not mean that there are other gods. The “God of gods” and the “Lord of lords” show us that God is the only God.

No one can do the wonderful miracles that God can do (Psalm 136:4). God made the skies, the earth, the stars, and the planets. Many people in Bible times believed the stars and planets were gods and worshiped them (Deuteronomy 4:19). The Book of Psalms shows us that these “gods” are only things God made. These “gods” can’t control anything.

In Psalm 136:12, the poet uses God’s hands and arms as a word picture to show us that God is very powerful. God’s hands and arms help us understand that God’s mercy can go anywhere and touch the heart of anyone.

God’s mercy should cause His people to trust in Him and stay loyal to Him and His promise. In Psalm 136, the poet announces 26 times that God’s mercy continues forever. This announcement gives us hope that the Lord doesn’t change. He will show favor to His people and continue to bless their children. God remembers His people (Psalm 136:23). God keeps His promise. The foundation of God’s promise is mercy. When we believe in God’s mercy, we will be filled with joy when we worship God.

Psalm 136:23-25 ends with telling us about how God cares for everyone and everything on this earth. God offers His mercy to His people and to everything He made. The Book of Psalms tells us that God’s saving mercy is for everyone. So, the poets invite everyone to join Israel as they praise the Lord (also read Luke 2:10; John 3:16; and Acts 15:17).

`How does Jesus’ death on the cross show us in a powerful way that God’s love and mercy continue forever?`