---
title:  Give Me A Clean Heart
date:   12/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 51:1-5. Why does the poet in Psalm 51 ask the Lord to show him mercy?`

King David wrote Psalm 51. In this poem, King David pours out his heart to the Lord. David asks God to forgive him for the sins he did at a dark time in his life (2 Samuel 11 and 12). David had sex with another man’s wife and then ordered the man to be killed in war. King David knows that he sinned against God (Psalm 103:10). But David asks God to show him mercy (Psalm 51:1; Exodus 34:6, 7). Forgiveness is a gift of God’s mercy and His love (Psalm 51:1).

`Read Psalm 51:6-19. What do these verses teach us about God’s forgiveness? How does God’s forgiveness change us? What else does God’s forgiveness do for us?`

God’s forgiveness is more than a legal announcement that the sinner is now innocent in God’s eyes. God’s forgiveness changes us from the inside out (Psalm 51:6; Hebrews 4:12). God makes our lives new (Psalm 51:10; John 3:3-8). The Hebrew word “_bara’_ ” means “to make.” “_Bara’_ ” shows us that God can make anything He wants out of nothing! God is the only One who can “_bara’_ ” or “make.” Only God can change a sinner’s heart (2 Corinthians 4:6).

David asks God to clean his heart with hyssop (Leviticus 14:2-8; Psalm 51:7). Hyssop is a plant that Israel’s spiritual leaders used at special times in their worship of God. King David feels that his guilt separates him from God in the same way a leper, or sick person, is separated from his community and must live alone with a skin disease (Psalm 51:11). David believes that animal offerings won’t heal him. He knows that no gift he can bring to God will pay for his terrible sins (Psalm 51:16; Exodus 21:14; Leviticus 20:10).

God’s mercy allows Him to accept David’s offering of a sorry heart. That’s why David says, “God, you will not reject a heart that is broken and sorry for its sin” (Psalm 51:17, ICB). When David asks God to make his heart clean with hyssop, David shows he wants to come back to God.

`If God can forgive murder, cheating, and lies, what hope do we all have?`