---
title:  What If The Lord Punished All Our Sins?
date:   13/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 130. What does this poem tell us about sin and how terrible it is? What hope do sinners have?`

The poet’s sins and his people’s sins cause the poet’s suffering (Psalm 130:3, 8). The people’s sins are bad enough to separate them from God forever (Psalm 130:3). In ­heaven, God keeps records of our sins. God will use these record books when He judges us (Daniel 7:10; Revelation 20:12). Sinners’ names will be removed from the Book of Life if they refuse to confess their sins and stop doing them (Exodus 32:32; Psalm 69:28; Revelation 13:8).

The poet asks God for forgiveness. God’s forgiveness is the only thing that can erase sin from the record books in heaven (Psalm 51:1, 9; Jeremiah 31:34; Micah 7:19). The poet knows that “God is a loving God, and not Someone who is angry. God only gets angry when people aren’t grateful for His gift of love. . . . God doesn’t pour His anger on us to hurt us. God’s anger is meant to heal us. God doesn’t want to destroy us. He wants to save His people (read Hosea 6:1, 2).”—Hans K. LaRondelle, Deliverance in the Psalms (Berrien Springs, MI: First Impressions, 1983), pages 180, 181, adapted. God loves to forgive our sins, not punish us for them! God’s forgiving love fills our hearts with love, too. Then we want to worship and honor Him (Psalm 130:4; Romans 2:4). We must worship God because we respect and love Him, not because we fear His punishments.

God’s children must be patient and wait for the Lord (Psalm 27:14; Psalm 37:34). Do we sit around and do nothing while we wait for the Lord to answer our prayers? Of course not! When we wait on the Lord, we grab hold of the Lord’s promises in faith and hold tight. The poet’s hope in the Lord comes from the Bible (Psalm 130:5). So, our waiting for the Lord is worth our time. Waiting for the Lord isn’t a time when we do nothing. Help from God will come when we need it most.

Do you see how the poet asks God to help everyone in his community of faith (Psalm 130:7, 8)? The poet knows that everyone in the community is connected. So, he prays for himself and the whole community. As Christians, we are also part of a faith community. So, we should remember to pray for each other.