---
title:  Praise to God
date:   14/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 113 and Psalm 123. What do these poems praise God for?`

Both Psalm 113 and Psalm 123 praise God for His mercy and His royal power or majesty. Only God can sit on the throne in heaven. So, God’s throne shows us His majesty and that He is powerful, too. God is more powerful than any leader on earth or in the skies. God is above them all (Psalm 113:4, 5; Psalm 123:1). That’s why the poet says, “Who is like [the same as] the Lord our God?” (Psalm 113:5, NLV). This verse shows the poet’s faith. The poet believes that no one on earth or in heaven is more powerful than the God of Israel.

The Lord’s throne is high above the earth. The poet says, the Lord “is so high above us that he must look down to see the sky and the earth” (Psalm 113:6, ERV). But the Lord is willing to bend down to watch over His children. God sees everything that happens here on earth. The Lord is filled with mercy. So, He is ready to save the poor and the needy from their troubles. The Lord doesn’t hide Himself from His servants, even if He lives far away.

We cannot fully understand God’s care for us. God takes care of the poor and the needy. He changes their lives. God does mighty miracles to help them. God shows us that He is very powerful when He helps people who are sad and hurting. People feel that they can come to God because they know He is the One who made them and the One who keeps them alive. We know that we are God’s servants and His beloved children.

We worship God because He is powerful. More than that, we worship God because He is loving and holy. We can praise God at any time and anywhere (Psalm 113:2, 3). We see God’s majesty and mercy in Jesus. Jesus was willing to leave His throne in heaven and come to this earth to save us. Jesus died on the cross to bring sinners back to God (Philippians 2:6-8). The Cross shows us the best reasons for why we should worship and praise God for all that He does for us.

`Think about the Cross and everything that Jesus did there for you. Think about your old sins. How did Jesus save you? Why must you always remember to think about these things?`