---
title:  Remember All God’s Blessings
date:   15/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 103. What does this poem teach us about God’s many blessings?`

Psalm 103 tells us about the Lord’s many blessings. The blessings include every good thing the Lord does for us (Psalm 103:2). The Lord “gives us plenty of good things” (Psalm 103:3-6, ERV). The Lord gives us these blessings because He is a God of love. The Lord also gives us these blessings because He remembers His promise with His people and keeps it (Psalm 103:7-18). The Lord remembers that humans are weak and live only a short time. So, the Lord feels sorry for His people (Psalm 103:13-17).

In the Bible, what does it mean to remember? Remembering is more than thinking about something that happened in the past. Remembering means that we do something now. When God remembers His promise, He acts. He comes to help His people. He keeps them alive because of His mercy (Psalm 103:3-13). In Psalm 103:11-16, the poet uses powerful word pictures to show us that God’s mercy can be compared only to the skies where all the planets and the stars are.

How should God’s people thank Him for His mercy?

First, God’s people should bless the Lord (Psalm 103:1, 2). When we bless someone, our blessing is the same as a gift. Our gift may be spiritual. Or our gift may be something that someone needs (Genesis 49:25; Psalm 5:12). Everything we own or have comes from God. So, how can we bless God when He already owns everything we have? The Bible shows us that we can praise or thank God in the same way that the Israelites thanked King Solomon for everything he did for them (1 Kings 8:66; also read Job 29:13). When God gives good gifts to His children, He blesses them. Then His people bless God with praise for His love.

Second, God’s people should remember His promise and His blessings in the past (Psalm 103:2, 18-22). When we remember God’s blessings, we will love and obey God more.

Ellen G. White wrote, “We should spend an hour each day thinking about Jesus’ life. . . . When we think about Jesus’ death for us, we will trust in Him more. Our love will grow strong. Then we will be filled with His Spirit.”—_The Desire of Ages_, page 83, adapted.