---
title:  Additional thought
date:   16/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Sinner’s Need of Christ,” pages 17-22, in _Steps to Christ_.

“We have sinned against God. We aren’t worthy of God’s blessings. But God taught us to say: ‘For [because of] your sake [honor], do not hate us. Do not take away [remove] the honor from your glorious [wonderful] throne. Remember your agreement [promise] with us. Do not break it.’ Jeremiah 14:21 [ICB]. When we come to God, we must confess our sin. We know that we aren’t worthy of His blessings. God will hear our cry for help. He promised He will answer our prayers. When God keeps His promise to us, He brings honor to His Name and His throne.”—Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_, page 148, adapted.

In Psalm 103, the poet knows that God showed him mercy (Psalm 103:2). God’s gift of mercy causes the poet to say, “The Lord does what is right and fair for all who are treated [hurt] badly” (Psalm 103:6, NIrV). The poet wants everyone to know that the Lord is a God of mercy and love. When people understand this Bible truth, they will give their hearts to God. They will accept His saving mercy and praise Him (Psalm 9:11, 12; Psalm 22:22-27; Psalm 66:16).

**Discussion Questions**:

`God’s mercy is everlasting. How does this Bible truth help you to understand God’s love and His saving mercy better? Does this teaching mean that we can continue sinning because God’s mercy is forever? Explain.`

`The same God who forgives our sins is the God who will judge our sins. How do we explain these two different ideas?`

`Read what the New Testament says about God’s mercy: Ephesians 2:4, 5; 1 Timothy 1:16; Titus 3:5; Hebrews 4:16. How do these verses about God’s mercy agree with what we read about God’s mercy in the Book of Psalms?`