---
title: 'Attacks On Ezra And Nehemiah'
date: 19/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ezra 4; Ezra 5; Nehemiah 4; Nehemiah 6.

> <p>Memory verse</p> 
> “But God was watching over the Jewish leaders. The builders didn’t [did not] have to stop working until a report could be sent to King Darius. They continued working until the king sent his answer back” (Ezra 5:5, ERV). 

**GOD’S PEOPLE**, the Jews, build again His temple. Leaders from countries near Judah tried to stop the Jews. In Ezra 3–6, we can read about the history of these attacks. These chapters show us an important idea. We learn about how people work against God. This idea is important for us to know. It helps us to understand better Ezra’s message in Ezra 3–6.

The first time we learn about Ezra is in Ezra 7:1. He arrives in Jerusalem in 457 b.c. After Ezra arrives, things change. The people start to build the city and its walls. But the work is slow. The people stop working many times. Thirteen years later, Nehemiah arrives. King Artaxerxes sends Nehemiah to Jerusalem in 444 b.c. The people start building the wall again. Many people try to stop the Jews. But God’s people finish the work in 52 days (Nehemiah 6:15).

As we said earlier, Ezra’s book shows us how people fight against God’s work. We see this idea in Nehemiah’s book too. So, we should not be surprised when the same thing happens today. Satan works hard to stop us from sharing the Good News. What can Ezra and Nehemiah teach us about what we should do when people attack God’s work?

_Satan works hard to stop us from sharing the Good News._