---
title: The Fights Start Against God's Work
date: 20/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Ezra 4:1–5. In these verses, we read about leaders who want to help the Jews rebuild their temple. Why do you think the small group of Jews in Jerusalem refuses their help?`

The leaders ask the Jews if they can help them build the city. Their offer seems very nice, right? But Ezra 4:1–5 give us a hint about what is really going on. Do you see that Ezra 4:2 says, “The enemies said, ‘We want to help you build’ ” (Ezra 4:2, NIrV)? “Enemies”! That word alone gives us a powerful hint about why God’s people say “No”!

Why does the Bible name these people “enemies”? 2 Kings 17:24–41 explains. These people live in Samaria and the land around it. But they were not born in Samaria. So, they are not Jews. They come from other countries. They move to Samaria after the Assyrians take the people of Israel away. Then the King of Assyria sends Jewish holy leaders, or priests, to Samaria. The priests teach the people who moved there about the God of Israel. But the people also worship the Canaanite gods. So, the small group of Jews who now come back to Jerusalem are worried. They do not want this false religion in Samaria to become part of their worship in God’s temple. So, God’s people do the best thing they can. When the people from Samaria offer to help, the Jews say, “No, thanks.”

`What else in Ezra 4:4, 5 shows us why God’s people do the right thing?`

`Think about the many reasons that God’s people had for accepting help from their enemies. But they chose not to. How does 2 Corinthians 6:14 help us to understand that God’s people made the right decision?`

_When the people from Samaria offer to help, the Jews say, “No, thanks.”_
