---
title: 'God S Prophets Or Special Messengers Encourage His People'
date: 21/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The leaders from the countries around Jerusalem fight against God’s work to build the temple. Sadly, God’s people grow afraid. They stop building the temple. We can read about what happens in Ezra 4–6. 

As we learned in lesson #1, the stories in Ezra 4:6–24 happen after the stories in Ezra 5 and Ezra 6, even if Ezra 4 comes first. If you remember this, it will help you not to get confused when you read. So, we will look at Ezra 5 before we look at Ezra 4.

`Ezra 5:1–5 tells us that God sends Haggai and Zechariah to the Jews. These men are God’s special messengers or prophets. Why does God send these prophets to His people? What happens when they give God’s people their special messages? What do God’s people do?`

The Jews stop building because they are afraid. But God sent them to Judah to rebuild the temple and the city. Now God has another plan. He wants to do something to encourage His people. He wants to help them to stop being afraid. So, God sends two prophets to go to His people. Our enemies may stop us. But they do not stop God. Yes, the Jews do some things that made their problem worse. But God does not leave them. He works with His prophets to help His people start building again. 

`Read Haggai’s message in Haggai 1. What does Haggai say to God’s people? What message is there for us too?`

“Haggai and Zechariah are prophets. God sends them to His people to help solve a big problem. Haggai and Zechariah give the people powerful messages from God. They show the people the cause of their troubles. The people do not have success in business because they do not put God first. The Israelites do not honor God. They do not show Him enough respect. The people do not put rebuilding God’s house first in their lives. That is why God is not with His people. They do not have His blessing.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 573, 574, adapted.

_“Haggai and Zechariah show the people the cause of their troubles. The people do not put rebuilding God’s house first in their lives.”_