---
title:  THE WORK STOPS
date:   22/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`What do the “enemies” do in Ezra 4:6–24 to try to stop the work in Jerusalem?`

The people in the lands around Jerusalem write letters. First, they write to King Darius (Ezra 5 and 6). Then they write to King Xerxes. (Another name for Xerxes is Ahasuerus.) Finally, they write to King Artaxerxes. The letters accuse the Jews of causing trouble in the Persian Kingdom. God’s enemies do everything in their power to stop the work in Jerusalem. 

The enemies warn that bad things will happen if the Jews build again their city. The Persian King will lose power over the city. The enemies ask the Persian King to remember all the trouble the Jews caused in the past. The enemies lie about the reason the Jews want to build again their city. They say it is because the Jews want to fight for their freedom from the Persian Kingdom. Sadly, King Artaxerxes believes these lies. He orders the work in Jerusalem to stop. God’s enemies send an army to Jerusalem. This army makes sure that no one builds the city. God’s work stops. 

`Why do the Jews stop building? They know that God wants them to rebuild the city, right? So, what gets in their way? Read Ezra 4:23, 24 for the answers.`

It is clear that the Jews believe that God sent them to Jerusalem to build the city and the temple. But they grow afraid when their enemies try to stop the work. Maybe the Jews make excuses about why they should stop. Maybe they say, “Now must not be the right time.” Or, “Is this really what God wants us to do? If so, why are all these bad things happening?” Or “Maybe God did not want us to come back home at all.” Have you ever felt this way? It is easy to think this same way when bad things happen. We start to doubt God’s leading in our lives. It is easy to believe we made a mistake. Fear can keep us from working. Our thoughts become sad. We feel helpless. But that is the time when we need to remember the power of God. 

`Have you ever felt God chose you to do special work? But did you doubt He chose you when things got hard? What did you learn from that experience?`

_God’s enemies write a letter to King Artaxerxes. They accuse the Jews of causing trouble in Persia._