---
title:  NEHEMIAH TAKES ACTION
date:   23/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 4. In this chapter, what does Nehemiah tell the Jews to do? Do they believe they do not need to do anything because God will protect them? If not, then how do God’s people fight against the attacks? Why is it important for them to get ready to fight? Why is that better than their doing nothing?`

After many stops and starts, God’s people start working again. The Jews pray. Then Nehemiah picks men to protect the people. These guards take turns protecting God’s people during the day and at night. The guards are ready for any attacks. Nehemiah also puts people around the wall with weapons. Now each family in Jerusalem is ready to fight too. Then Nehemiah divides his servants into two groups. One group builds. The other group holds weapons. Nehemiah also makes sure that the builders on the wall are safe. They are closest to the danger. So, each builder carries a sword in one hand. With his other hand, he adds bricks or stones to the wall. In this way, the builders are ready for any attacks. The people do their part. God does the rest. Nehemiah’s faith in God gives God’s people courage. Do you see that Nehemiah does not sit on the couch and expect God to do everything? He gets the people ready as best as he can.

There are two sets of verses in Nehemiah that fill our hearts with courage and hope: “ ‘Don’t [do not] be afraid of our enemies. Remember the Lord, who is great [mighty] and powerful! You must fight for your brothers, your sons, and your daughters! You must fight for your wives and your homes!’ ” (Nehemiah 4:14, ERV). And “ ‘Our God will fight for us’ ” (Nehemiah 4:20, ERV). These verses are some of the most powerful verses in the Bible.

Yes, the Jews can choose to stop building again because of the attacks. But they are no longer afraid. Now they trust in the promise that God will fight for them. Remember this promise when someone attacks you because of your beliefs or for doing God’s work. God will fight for you.

In the end, the Jews believe that the Lord is with them. Their faith gives them the courage to keep working.

`Why is it so important for us to know that we are following God’s plan for our lives? How can we know?`

_Each builder carries a sword in one hand. With his other hand, he adds bricks or stones to the wall._