---
title:  "AN “IMPORTANT WORK”"
date:   24/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 6:1–13. Why does Nehemiah see the work he does in Jerusalem as “ ‘important work’ ” (Nehemiah 6:3, ERV)? What do God’s enemies do to stop him?`

Nehemiah 6 tells us that God’s enemies try to kill Nehemiah several times. Sanballat and Geshem, God’s enemies, send Nehemiah many letters. They say they want Nehemiah to meet with them. But that is a lie. How do we know? Because they want to meet with Nehemiah in the Plain of Ono. That is in the land of God’s enemies. So, the spot they pick clearly shows Nehemiah what they want to do. They invite Nehemiah there to kill him. Sanballat, Tobiah, and Geshem feel that they have to act fast. Soon, the Jews will finish building the wall. Then the gates will be shut. God’s enemies will not have a chance to stop the Jews after that happens. Also, the Persian King protects the Jews. So, God’s enemies cannot attack the Jews out in the open. But if they can get rid of Nehemiah, the leader of God’s people, then maybe God’s enemies can stop the Jews forever. God’s enemies do not give up. Even if Nehemiah does not answer their letters, they keep writing to him. Nehemiah sends messengers to the enemies saying, “ ‘I am doing important work. . . . I don’t [do not] want the work to stop just so I can come down and meet with you’ ” (Nehemiah 6:3, ERV).

In human eyes, Nehemiah already does important work for the king. Nehemiah, you will remember, is the king’s cupbearer. A cupbearer tastes the king’s drinks to make sure they are safe for the king to drink. This job is one of the most important jobs in the land. Nehemiah also gives advice to the king. That is very important work! But building a city that is destroyed? How can that be important work? Nehemiah does not think the way other people think. He feels that the work he does for God is more important than anything else he can do.

During the time that Nehemiah works for God, a man named Shemaiah wants to meet with Nehemiah. Shemaiah tells Nehemiah to meet him inside God’s temple. The inside of God’s temple is very holy. Only priests, or holy leaders, can go there. So, Shemaiah shows he is a false prophet, or messenger. God never sends a messenger to tell His people to do something that He said they should not do. Shemaiah’s words show us that his heart is evil. 

_Nehemiah feels that the work he does for God is more important than anything else he can do._