---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 25/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “The Builders on the Wall,” “A Rebuke Against Extortion,” and “Heathen Plots,” pages 635–660, in Prophets and Kings.

“The builders in Nehemiah’s day face attacks from enemies and from people who say they are friends. The builders lose courage and stop working. Today, we who work for God often will feel the same way. God tests Christians. Yes, they are tested by the anger, hate, and mean spirits of their enemies. But they also are tested by people who say they are their friends but are not. These friends are lazy. They do not always do what they say they will do. They do not care about helping God’s people. We cannot trust them.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 644, adapted. 

“Why do Nehemiah’s enemies fail to beat Nehemiah? Nehemiah is firm in his decision to serve God. Nehemiah trusts fully in God. A lazy person is led into sin easily. But not the person who lives to honor God. Evil will have little power over him. The person who grows in faith day by day does not grow weak. He sees God’s everlasting love working in all things. God’s true servants work with firm hearts and minds. They will not fail. They always go to God’s throne for help. They depend fully on God’s grace, or loving-favor. —Page 660, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**:

`1. It is easy to see that Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the other leaders make the right choice. They do not accept the offer of help from their enemies. As Adventists, how do we know when we should or should not work with people who do not belong to our church or share our faith? How do we know if we are making the right choice? What important Bible rules can help guide us?`

`2. The study of Bible history shows us the danger we will be in when we give up our beliefs. People often stop doing what they know is right so that they can get riches, power, or fame. Sadly, the whole history of Israel shows us this is true. What Bible truths can we follow to help us not make Israel’s same mistakes? What will help us stay true to our beliefs?`

_“God’s true servants always go to God’s throne for help.”_