---
title:  It Is Written
date:  12/04/2020
---

The baptism of Jesus by John the Baptist marked the beginning of the Savior’s ministry, following which Jesus was led by the Spirit into the Judean wilderness, where—in His weakest human condition—He was tempted by Satan.

`Read Matthew 4:1–11. How does Jesus defend Himself against Satan’s temptations in the wilderness? What should we learn about the Bible from this account?`

When tempted by appetite, Jesus responds: “ ‘It is written, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God” ’ ” (Matt. 4:4, NKJV). Jesus points back to the living Word and its ultimate, divine source. In this way, He affirms the authority of Scripture. When tempted with the world’s kingdoms and glory, Jesus responds, “ ‘It is written, “You shall worship the Lord your God and Him only you shall serve” ’ ” (Matt. 4:10, Luke 4:8, NKJV). Christ reminds us that true worship is focused on God and not on anyone else, and that submission to His Word is true worship. Finally, with the temptation on the love of display and on presumption, Jesus responds, “ ‘It is written again, “You shall not tempt the Lord your God” ’ ” (Matt. 4:7, NKJV; also Luke 4:12).

In all three temptations, Jesus responds with the words “It is written.” That is, Jesus goes right to the Word of God and nothing else to deal with the attacks and deceptions of Satan. This should be a powerful lesson to all of us: the Bible, and the Bible alone, is the ultimate standard and foundation of our belief.

Yes, the Bible and the Bible alone was Jesus’ method of defense against the attacks of the adversary. Jesus is God, but in His defense against Satan He submits Himself solely to the Word of God. It is not opinion; it is not an elaborate, convoluted argument; it is not with words of personal animosity; it is instead by the simple yet profound words of Scripture. For Christ, Scripture has the greatest authority and the greatest power. In this way, His ministry begins with a certain foundation and continues to build upon the trustworthiness of the Bible.

`How can we learn to be just as reliant on the Word of God, and as submissive to it?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"Satan made stronger attacks upon Christ than he will ever make upon us. There was much at stake with him, whether Christ or himself should be conqueror. If Christ resisted his most powerful temptations, and Satan did not succeed in leading Him to sin, he knew that he must lose his power, and finally be punished with everlasting destruction. Therefore Satan worked with mighty power to lead Christ to do a wrong action, for then he would gain advantage over Him.... You can never be tempted in so determined and cruel manner as was our Saviour. Satan was upon His path every moment. {SD 156.2}

The Saviour overcame to show man how he may overcome. All the temptations of Satan, Christ met with the Word of God. By trusting in God’s promises, He received power to obey God’s commandments, and the tempter could gain no advantage. {SD 156.4}

"Christ came to this world to show us what God can do and what we can do in cooperation with God. In human flesh He went into the wilderness to be tempted by the enemy. He knows what it is to hunger and thirst. He knows the weakness and the infirmities of the flesh. He was tempted in all points like as we are tempted. {6BC 1074.4}

Our ransom has been paid by our Saviour. No one need be enslaved by Satan. Christ stands before us as our divine example, our all-powerful Helper. We have been bought with a price that it is impossible to compute. Who can measure the goodness and mercy of redeeming love? {6BC 1074.5}"

"We must rise to a higher standard on the subject of faith. We have too little faith. The Word of God is our endorsement. We must take it, simply believing every word. With this assurance, we may claim large things, and according to our faith it will be unto us.... If we humble our hearts before God, if we seek to abide in Christ, we shall have a higher, holier experience.... {UL 346.2}

True faith consists in doing just what God has enjoined, not manufacturing things He has not enjoined. Justice, truth, mercy, are the fruit of faith. We need to walk in the light of God’s law; then good works will be the fruit of our faith, the proceeds of a heart renewed every day. {UL 346.3}"

The Word of God is to be our guide. About the truths that this Word contains there is no guesswork. Let us not leave this unerring guide in order to seek for something new and strange.... There are many such doctrines that have not for their foundation, “It is written.” They are but human suppositions. It was with the word “It is written” that Christ met every temptation of Satan in the wilderness, and armed with this weapon, He could say to the enemy, “Thus far shalt thou come, and no farther.” {TMK 210.2}