---
title:  The Pride Ride
date:  21/09/2019
---

**Introduction**: Matt. 17:28; Heb. 10:22–24

Sean took pride in his new car. Aside from the novelty of owning his first car, he was also one of those people who truly valued the things that he worked hard to obtain. He would take great pride in washing and cleaning his car himself with the greatest attention to detail. He would spend hours vacuuming the floor carpets, steam cleaning the seats, and cleaning every possible cranny where dust could be found. He would polish his car regularly and even bought professional equipment to guarantee maximum aesthetic excellence. He was no stranger to flattering comments on the pristine condition of his vehicle—his pride and joy.

Regrettably, Sean’s car served little purpose for anyone besides himself. Any passenger would have to endure scornful remarks about their dirty feet soiling his plush floor mats or crumbs from their meal getting into his seats. Sean would outright refuse friends and family members a ride simply because he had just cleaned his car and didn’t want to get it dirty again. He would complain about the price of fuel if anyone requested his assistance. Sean’s car became an idol to which he was devoted and committed. People around him soon became reluctant to approach him on anything to do with his precious car. What’s worse is that Sean’s pride in his ride prevented him from realizing that he was being cold to the people whom he was meant to care for.

As an organized community of believers, we often find ourselves in Sean’s position. We go to great lengths to equip our churches with everything necessary for their maintenance. We become so consumed with the physical condition of the church that we lose sight of our purpose. The church was established to be a lighthouse in the community, a shining beacon of hope, the body of Christ wholly engaged in service to those around it. Just as Christ came “not to be ministered unto, but to minister” (Matt. 17:28), we are to serve others. Ministering not only refers to our commission to teach, preach, and baptize but includes responding to the cries for help in our communities and meeting those specific needs. This week let us remember our true purpose as the body of Christ. Let us seek to draw others to Him. Let the church not be consumed in the pride ride but be consumed with the journey to becoming a mission-minded community.

---

_Steven Ignacio, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_