---
title:  Service Versus Service
date:  23/09/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 1:21; Heb. 10:26, 27; 1 John 3:17–24

“God chose Israel to reveal His character to men. . . . In the early days of Israel the nations of the world, through corrupt practices, had lost the knowledge of God. They had once known Him; but because ‘they glorified Him not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, . . . their foolish heart was darkened.’ Romans 1:21. Yet in His mercy God did not blot them out of existence. He purposed to give them an opportunity of again becoming acquainted with Him through His chosen people. . . .

“But the people of Israel lost sight of their high privileges as God’s representatives. They forgot God and failed to fulfill their holy mission. The blessings they received brought no blessing to the world. All their advantages they appropriated for their own glorification. They shut themselves away from the world in order to escape temptation. The restrictions that God had placed upon their association with idolaters as a means of preventing them from conforming to the practices of the heathen, they used to build up a wall of separation between themselves and all other nations. They robbed God of the service He required of them, and they robbed their fellow men of religious guidance and a holy example.

“Priests and rulers became fixed in a rut of ceremonialism. They were satisfied with a legal religion, and it was impossible for them to give to others the living truths of heaven. . . .

“Of Israel God declared: ‘I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a right seed: how then art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine unto Me?’ Jeremiah 2:21. ‘Israel is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself.’ Hosea 10:1. ‘And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt Me and My vineyard. What could have been done more to My vineyard, that I have not done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?’ ”1 Upon investigation, will God come to the same conclusion of us?

**React**

`1. Christ gave us the perfect example for ministry. What factors have caused us to divert from His plan?`

`2. What are the similarities between the Pharisees of Israel and the church today pertaining to mission?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 14, 15.</sup>

_Khaffi Beckles, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_