---
title:  Levels of Organization
date:  24/09/2019
---

**Evidence**: 1 Cor. 12:12–20

Corinth, during the time of Paul’s ministry, was a cosmopolitan city. Apart from its cultural diversity, the city was also one of wealth. Immorality was so rampant, it was accepted as the norm.1 The church, as a microcosm of Corinthian society, was not exempt from these influences. Upon reaching the Corinthians, Paul would have been faced with a slew of issues within the church that caused major divisions. Two main issues that he addressed were (1) socioeconomic status—the rift between the rich, poor, and enslaved, and (2) religious culture—the differences between Jewish and Gentile practices and beliefs.

Paul presents the concept of the church as both an organization and community using the human body. Cells make up tissue, which makes up organs, which are organized in systems. A lack of integration and harmony between these elements would likely result in deformity or disability.

The Greek word sarx translates as “flesh,” which refers to the biological makeup of a human, our bodies.2 The use of sarx in this context reinforces the humanistic qualities of the church. The church is the combination of individuals (cells), ministries (tissues), churches (organs), and conferences, unions, and divisions (systems). However, its ability to sense the need for social identity, support, and purpose should extend further than itself.

The church today faces a dilemma similar to that of the church in Corinth. It contains persons of varying socioeconomic backgrounds. There also exists a rift between persons who have been “groomed” in Adventism as opposed to those who have recently joined the body in the height of the millennial movement. In seeking to fulfill the Christian mission, the church members should consider their humanity, which points to not only their need for a Savior but a need for collaboration. Optimum performance can be attained only when the various parts of the body work in unison. The efficiency would allow for a more comprehensive missionary approach when seeking to meet the needs of the oppressed, hungry, naked, and helpless in society.

**React**

`1. What individual changes can you make to encourage a spirit of unity at your local church without compromising biblical principles?`

---

<sup>1. G. Lacoste Munn, “The Historical Background of First Corinthians,” Southwestern Journal of Theology 3 (Fall 1960), para. 7–17, http://preachingsource.com/journal/the-historical-background-of-first-corinthians/.</sup>

<sup>2. “The NAS New Testament Greek Lexicon,” s.v. “Sarx,” https://www.biblestudytools.com /lexicons/greek/nas/sarx.html.</sup>

_Bernice Batson, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_