---
title:  Your Body as a Living Sacrifice
date:  25/09/2019
---

**How-to**: Rom. 12:1; 1 Cor. 12:13, 24; 1 John 3:16–18

“I beseech you therefore brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto to God, which is your reasonable service” (Rom. 12:1). Since we live in Christ and not of ourselves, we must be an example to others as Christ was an example to us. Oftentimes we become distracted with the daily running of the church as an organization, and we neglect our duty to do God’s work in our communities. We get so caught up in ensuring that the church building looks good and maintaining the order of the church service that we forget that the church is not a building but a people and that we have a God-mandated mission to go out into the world. 1 John 3:16–18 reminds us to stay focused. Here are two things we can do to help us stay focused on our mission.

Take note of the way you live. Extend the knowledge you’ve gathered outside of the church. We are to spread the gospel to all nations, and you might be the only expression of God’s love to another person for that week. Let the gospel shape your lifestyle. If we are not focused and constantly seeking the call of God in our lives, we will be held accountable. Once you walk and talk as Jesus did, you will be given the opportunity to expose someone to the grace and mercy of our Lord and Savior. “For our comely parts have no need; but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundantly honour to that part which lacked” (1 Cor. 12:24).

Stay faithful in your works. Recognition is something we desire as humans beings, but the only recognition you should seek is from the Lord. We are not of this world, and, thus, our minds should be set on higher things. Listen to the instruction of the Holy One as it relates to your purpose and duty here on earth, whether it be joining the children’s ministry or sharing the gospel with your coworker or friend. Continue to love and serve one another. Our minds cannot foresee the talents and ideas that God will instill in us once we obey His call. Never surrender to the discouraging tactics of the devil because God is ever faithful, and He will complete the work He started in us.

**React**

`1. How do we avoid falling into the trap of discouragement when doing God’s work?`

`2. What are some ways we can discern the instruction of God in our lives?`

---

_Hanetta Savary, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_