---
title:  One God, One People
date:  26/09/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 12:3, 6

Music fascinates me. When done properly, various instruments can be played together, each playing different musical notes, yet a harmonious sound is heard. Each musician is dedicated to playing his or her part and playing it well, resulting in a glorious sound. Through the workings of an orchestra, one can see and understand the workings of the church. Each musician must play their part for the composition to sound how the composer intended it to sound. So each member of the church must play a part in the working of the church.

For the church to make a positive impact in service to those around us as Jesus did when He walked the earth, we must be united in Him; we must work as one. In the orchestra, each musician has abilities: some can play the violin, some the cello, some the flute. So we in the church have different abilities: teaching, prophecy, wisdom, knowledge, healing, and languages. We are to use our gifts and abilities in harmony with one another (1 Cor. 12:4). We are to work as well-oiled machinery; each member must be functioning at their best for the church to be as effective as Jesus was in His ministry here on earth.

Back to the orchestra. All the musicians are playing the same song but different parts. Even the smallest part, like the tinkling of the triangle, brings a sweetness to the overall sound produced. So, too, all members of the church must have the same goal, though we carry out different functions. We must also keep in mind that each function, no matter how small or insignificant it seems to you, is needed for the church to properly represent Christ to this dying world.

It’s also important to remember to encourage our brothers and sisters. Service to God is not always like instant soup, where you put in work for three minutes and get results. It’s sometimes like learning a musical instrument: you have to invest time and effort to get results. Do not become disheartened when you do not see the immediate effects of the efforts of your service. God reminds us not to be weary in doing good (Gal. 6:9). When we see our brothers and sisters losing faith, we are to encourage them with love to stay on the path (Heb. 10:24). Remember that Jesus is faithful concerning His promises; and if we continue to do His good works, we will reap what we sow (Gal. 6:9; Heb. 10:23).

**React**

`1. Do you know what your gifts or talents are, and are you using them to the best of your ability as a member of the community of servants for Christ?`

`2. What can you do to encourage those who seem to be losing the faith?`

---

_Danielle Ignacio, D’Abadie, Trinidad and Tobago_