---
title:  Genuine Service
date:  27/09/2019
---

**Exploration**: Hebrews 10

**Conclude**

There is a well-known saying that goes, “The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results.” Christ in His Word has time and time again outlined His perfect will for the church. He not only teaches us but came to this earth to give us a living example and make a way for us to walk in the “new and living way” (Heb. 10:20). Christ calls us to reject the easy, mechanical, and cold way we’ve been purporting service to be. He’s made a way for us to reach out in true service to those who need it the most. Hebrews 10 is a love letter; it’s a call for God’s people to be who He’s called them to be. To be authentic. To be real. To be a community of servants in a world where to be served seems most important. Let us support each other and encourage each other, and by God’s Holy Spirit, let us hold fast, without wavering, and do the good works we have been chosen to do.

**Consider**

- Administering a spiritual gift assessment tool to the members of your class to help them understand their service niche.
- Compiling a skills and talents bank to become aware of the resources available to you for mission.
- Brainstorming an outreach program that utilizes the talents of each person in the class.
- Making the word service into an acronym.
- Producing a skit that illustrates the differences between service (church) and service (mission).
- Performing a small-scale needs assessment in your community to assess the field to which you are accountable.


---

_Cadia Daniel, D’Abadie, Trinidad and Tobago._