---
title:  When Jesus Woke Up From the Dead
date:   15/08/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
1 Corinthians 15:1–4, 9–19, 20–23; Luke 24:44–47; 2 Timothy 1:12.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “And if Christ did not rise [wake up from the dead], then what we told you was not true [correct], and what you believe is not true. . . . If Christ was not raised [if God didn’t wake Jesus up from the dead], then what you believe is no good. Your wrong ways [sins] have not been forgiven” (1 Corinthians 15:14–17, WE).

During Paul’s time, some people didn’t believe in the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when the dead will wake up at the Second Coming. Why did people have a hard time believing in the resurrection? They saw what death did to the human body. They knew the body dried up and became dust. So, they didn’t think the resurrection could happen. Many people think the same thing today.

Paul wants us to understand the Bible truth about the resurrection. This teaching is important. If Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead, He is not who He said He is. If Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead, the Cross has no power to change our lives. And our sins are not paid for. What hope do we have then? None. But our Lord woke up from the dead. He went to heaven. He will come back to take us home!

This week, we will look at 1 Corinthians 15 and its teaching on Jesus’ resurrection. Some church members in Corinth were saying there is no resurrection. What is Paul’s answer to this false teaching? Paul says that Jesus’ resurrection is our only hope that God will save us.