---
title:  Announcing Jesus’ Resurrection
date:   16/08/2026
---

Paul starts 1 Corinthians 15 with the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin. What does Paul say about the Good News? (1) Paul preached the Good News to the Corinthians. (2) They believed it. (3) But now they must hold on tight to it. (4) Then God can save them (1 Corinthians 15:1, 2). Jesus’ resurrection is important to our being saved (also read Romans 10:9, 10). As we saw, the resurrection is the time when people will wake up from the dead. The resurrection is an important part of the Good News. If we reject Jesus’ resurrection, we really reject our faith in Jesus.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:1–4; Luke 24:44–47; and Romans 1:1–4. What do these verses teach about the resurrection?`

In 1 Corinthians 15:1–4, we read a short explanation about Paul’s message. Notice how Paul says, “Christ [Jesus] died as a sacrifice [offering] for our sins. The Bible already said how that would happen” (1 Corinthians 15:3, EASY). Does “the Bible” in this verse mean certain verses in the Old Testament or the whole Old Testament? It doesn’t matter. What’s important is that Jesus’ death and resurrection keep God’s Old Testament promises.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:2, 11. Why does Paul include the idea of believing with preaching in these verses?`

Before we can announce that Jesus woke up from the dead, we first must believe in His resurrection. 1 Corinthians 15:5–8 give us Bible proof that many people saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead. Many of these people were alive when Paul wrote his first letter to the Corinthians (1 Corinthians 15:6). In this letter, Paul is really saying, “Go ask these people what they saw.” So Paul was very sure that Jesus woke up from the dead.

The people who saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead were witnesses. That’s why Jesus said they were “ ‘the people who have seen what has happened here’ ” (Luke 24:48, EASY).

`What are our reasons for believing in Jesus’ resurrection? Also, what other things do we believe, even if we didn’t see them happen?`