---
title:  Our Only Hope!
date:   17/08/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 15:9–19, Paul explains why we must not reject Jesus’ resurrection. The resurrection was the time when Jesus woke up from the dead. Without the resurrection, we have no hope now or in the future.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:9–19. What do we lose if Jesus didn’t wake up from dead?`

Most non-Jews didn’t believe in the resurrection. The Greeks believed that the spirit flew off to wherever the dead go when the body died. So, Paul starts 1 Corinthians 15:12–19 with a question that shows his surprise: “What? How can some of you say that there is no resurrection?” (1 Corinthians 15:12, writer’s translation). Paul has a hard time understanding the people who don’t believe in the resurrection. Many people saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead (1 Corinthians 15:5–8). Worse, if Christians don’t believe in the resurrection, they have no hope. If Jesus is in the grave, God can’t forgive our sins.

If there is no resurrection, then Paul says: (1) Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead (1 Corinthians 15:13, 16). (2) Our preaching is empty, without any promise (1 Corinthians 15:14). (3) Our faith also is empty. (4) We are false witnesses. (5) Our faith is useless (1 Corinthians 15:17). (6) Our sins aren’t forgiven (1 Corinthians 15:17). And (7) the dead continue to sleep in their graves (1 Corinthians 15:18).

If the resurrection is a false teaching, our preaching and our faith are useless (1 Corinthians 15:14). So, if Jesus is not alive, our faith is a lie. Why? Because without the resurrection, God can’t forgive our sins (1 Corinthians 15:17). If so, we are false witnesses. If Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead, we are lying to people when we tell them the Good News that Jesus can save them from their sins (1 Corinthians 15:15).

`How can we understand 1 Corinthians 15 if the dead fly off to heaven (or to hell) right away after they die? Why is the teaching that the dead sleep so important for us to understand?`