---
title:  Jesus Was the First
date:   18/08/2026
---

Jesus’ resurrection is real. As we saw already, the resurrection is the time when Jesus woke up from the dead. Yes, the resurrection happened. So, we can be sure that everyone who died in Jesus will wake up from the dead at the Second Coming (1 Corinthians 15:20–23).

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:20–23. What does Paul mean when he says that Jesus “was the first one” (verse 20, WE)?`

Jesus is named “the first one.” That’s because He is proof that the dead in Christ Jesus will wake up from the grave at the Second Coming (1 Corinthians 15:23; Revelation 20:5, 6). Jesus will bring the kingdom back to God the Father. Then the earth will be under God’s control again (1 Corinthians 15:25–28). Paul says that Jesus will put Himself under God’s control (1 Corinthians 15:28). How will Jesus do that? To answer this question, we must compare Jesus with Adam. Jesus became a second Adam to save us from sin (1 Corinthians 15:45). But Jesus will give Himself completely to the Father to serve Him. The first Adam didn’t do that.

In 1 Corinthians 15:29–34, Paul continues to talk about Jesus’ resurrection. Again, Paul says that rejecting this teaching is silly. Paul uses the teaching of baptism to help us understand what he is saying. Baptism is a symbol of our relationship with Jesus in His death and resurrection (Romans 6:3, 4; Colossians 2:12). If Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead, then why do we get baptized? We can understand Paul’s thinking. What is hard to understand is his words about Christians who got baptized for people “who have already died” (1 Corinthians 15:29, EASY). What does Paul mean?

Does this verse mean that people got baptized for dead people who didn’t know Jesus? Did they get baptized because they thought that it would help save these people who died without knowing Jesus? Of course not! Some people decided to get baptized so that they could see their dead loved ones again at the resurrection. Also, some people chose to get baptized because they wanted to live the same as the Christians who died in Jesus. So, people didn’t get baptized **for** the dead. They got baptized **because** of them.

`Think about Paul’s words in 2 Timothy 1:12. Why was Paul so sure about the future? How can we be, too?`