---
title:  A New Body
date:   19/08/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 15:35–39, Paul gives us a short talk about the resurrected body. The resurrected body is the body that Jesus will give us when we wake up from the dead.

Paul starts his short talk with two questions: (1) “How does God raise [wake up] dead people, to make them alive again?” And (2) “What kind [type] of body will they have?” (1 Corinthians 15:35, EASY). These questions are answered in 1 Corinthians 15:36–49.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:36–41. How do these verses answer the questions in 1 Corinthians 15:35?`

Paul uses three examples to help his readers understand what happens at the resurrection. As we already saw, the resurrection is the time when God’s people will wake up from the dead at the Second Coming. (1) Paul’s first example compares the body to a seed. The body is the same as a seed that first must die. Then the seed can become a plant. This change is a miracle. Paul’s teaching is plain: the resurrection is a miracle from God. (2) Next, Paul talks about how God gave animals and people different types of bodies to live on this earth. In the same way, God will give us new bodies for our lives in heaven and on the new earth. (3) In Paul’s final example, he talks about the body we will have when we wake up from the dead (1 Corinthians 15:40–42). We will have “very beautiful” bodies (1 Corinthians 15:43, EASY). The resurrected body will be much more beautiful than our bodies now.

Paul compares the bodies we have now with our resurrected bodies. The bodies we have now are made for life on this earth. Our bodies die. They are weak and can sin. But our resurrected bodies will be made for our life in heaven and on the new earth. Our new bodies can’t die. They are powerful and spiritual (1 Corinthians 15:40–44). Paul uses the same Greek word _“sōma”_ for both our bodies now and our resurrected body later. But our new bodies won’t be the same as the ones we have now. Praise the Lord!

Paul doesn’t use the word “spiritual” (EASY) to mean we won’t have bodies. In Philippians 3:21, Paul says that Jesus “will change these weak bodies that we have now on this earth. He will make them become strong and beautiful, like [the same as] his own body that he has in heaven” (EASY). We will have real bodies. But they won’t get sick or die.