---
title:  Our Final Win Over Death
date:   20/08/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:54–57. What do these verses teach us about our final win over death?`

Paul starts the last part of 1 Corinthians 15 with a surprising teaching: “Our weak human bodies cannot go to ­heaven, to join God in his kingdom there. Our human bodies will die. They cannot share in something that will continue for ever” (1 Corinthians 15:50, EASY). Many Bible readers think Paul is teaching that we won’t have bodies in heaven. But that isn’t what the verse teaches. Just as we saw in 1 Corinthians 15:42–49, Paul is comparing the bodies we have now (or even our dead bodies) with the resurrected body. The resurrected body is the body we will have when Jesus wakes us up from the dead. The bodies we have now are ruined with sin and can die. But the resurrected body is clean from sin and is everlasting (1 Corinthians 15:50, 53, 54). In short, Paul is saying that our bodies need to be changed in a big way first before we can go to heaven.

Paul uses the words “bodies of flesh and blood” (1 Corinthians 15:50, ERV) to mean the natural bodies that we have now. In these bodies, we can choose to sin. In Jewish writings, the words “flesh and blood” mean sinners. That’s why our bodies must be changed when Jesus comes back. He must make them perfect and holy to match our hearts.

So, when Jesus changes us (1 Corinthians 15:54), He gives us beautiful new bodies (1 Corinthians 15:51–53; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–17). “When that happens, what is written in the Bible will be true: ‘God has won against death. He has destroyed it completely!’ ” (1 Corinthians 15:54, EASY). Then God’s people will sing this song: “ ‘Death, you can no longer win! Death, you no longer have any power to hurt us!’ ” (1 Corinthians 15:55, EASY). These things happen at the Second Coming (1 Corinthians 15:51, 52). How long will it take Jesus to change our bodies? Paul tells us: “In a very short time, no longer than it takes for the eye to close and open, the Christians who have died will be raised [resurrected; made alive]. It [the change] will happen when the last horn sounds. The dead will be raised [will wake up] never to die again. Then the rest of us who are alive will be changed” (1 Corinthians 15:52, NLV).

`Life is so short. How does this idea help us to learn to be patient while we wait for Jesus to come back?`