---
title:  Church Rising
date:  17/06/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 18:1–4**

**Church Rising**

Sooner or later, final events will begin to unfold. We have not been told exactly when and how, but we have been told enough. Some kind of legislation enforcing Sunday-keeping in contrast to Sabbath-keeping will be passed. Revelation has revealed to us the crucial issues at stake, the crucial players involved, and, in broad sweeps, has depicted what will happen when instead of worshiping of the One “who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (Rev. 14:7), people—all “whose names have not been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” (Rev. 13:8)—will worship the beast and his image. In other words, the names of all who have chosen to follow the Lord Jesus Christ and obey His commandments will remain in the book of life. How much better to be in the register of God than in the records of man!

God has raised up the Seventh-day Adventist Church to preach this message to the world. We therefore need to be believers of the truth as it is in Jesus, and we need to have been transformed and made new by the “everlasting gospel” of Revelation 14:6, which is centered on Christ’s death for us, the assurance of our salvation in Him, as well as the future hope of the end of sin and complete restoration in the new earth.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 18:1–4 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `