---
title:  Preparing for the Final Crisis
date:  18/06/2023
---

#### inGest

The apostle Paul urged the believers at Thessalonica to “watch and be sober” in the context of the second coming of Christ (1 Thess. 5:6). He also declared that they were “children of the light” (verse 5, NIV) and that they were “not in darkness so that this day [the return of Christ] should surprise [them] like a thief” (verse 4, NIV). If Paul urged the devout Thessalonian believers in this way, how much more would he urge us today?

Jesus used the word “watch” in connection with earnest, heartfelt prayer (Matt. 24:42; 26:40, 41). To watch is to be spiritually alert. To be sober-minded is to take seriously the times we live in and be focused on the things that really matter. Ellen G. White adds that “we who know the truth should be preparing for what is soon to break upon the world as an overwhelming surprise” (Testimonies for the Church [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1948], vol. 8, p. 28). While Christ’s second coming might be a surprise to the world, it certainly should not be a surprise for us. Though we don’t know when it will happen, we can see enough, both in the Bible and in the world events around us, to know that it is coming, and that now, today, is the day to be ready. There is no time to waste.

Christ has given us the three angels’ messages so we can prepare for what we know is coming. The prophecies of Daniel and Revelation, combined with the modern gift of prophecy, provide divine insight into the future events of this world. The prophetic Word of God outlines salvation history in advance, and the prophecies of Daniel 2, which were fulfilled exactly as predicted, provide powerful, rational evidence that we can trust God.

God’s final appeal to His people is to flee the errors of Babylon and walk in the light of eternal truth found in His Word (Rev. 18). The key to everything is the Bible. As long as people stick to the Bible and follow what it teaches, they will not be deceived in the final crisis—particularly regarding the Sabbath. The message of the second angel further appeals to us to accept truth rather than error, Scripture rather than tradition, and the teachings of God’s Word rather than the false doctrines proclaimed by many fallen organizations.

The third angel’s message presents a warning against the mark of the beast. Throughout the prophecies of the Bible, a beast consistently represents a political or religious power. Eventually this religious power extended its influence over the whole world and led a movement to unite church and state. The goal was to achieve world unity at a time of economic upheaval, natural catastrophes, social turmoil, international political crisis, and global conflict. As Ellen G. White says, the United States will eventually take the lead in this global confederation (see lesson 10). These messages conclude with an urgent appeal for Christ’s faithful followers to keep the commandments of God through fostering the living faith of Jesus in their hearts (Rev. 14:12).

Journal:

`What does 1 Thessalonians 5:6’s “not sleep, as others do” mean?`

`How do you know if you’re sleeping? What will it take to wake us?`

` `