---
title:  Illuminated With Glory
date:  19/06/2023
---

#### inTerpret

God has raised up an end-time people to stand on the shoulders of the great reformers of the past with the Bible as their only creed, Christ alone as their source of salvation, the Holy Spirit as their only source of strength, and the return of our Lord as the consummation of all their hopes. Truths long obscured by the darkness of error and tradition, including the true biblical Sabbath, will be proclaimed to the world just before our Lord returns.

The three angels’ messages gave rise to this last-day movement to complete the Reformation and to participate with Christ in finishing His work on earth. The great prophecies of the last book of the Bible reveal a divine movement arising out of disappointment to proclaim God’s final message to the world. Revelation 14 describes a church that spans the globe, spreading the good news of the eternal gospel to every person on earth.

The three angels of Revelation 14 are joined by a fourth in chapter 18. This angel gives power to the proclamation of the three angels so that the world is illuminated with glory (Rev. 18:1). Chapter 18 focuses on the major events that will lead up to the climax of human history and the final, ultimate triumph of the gospel.

The angel who comes down from the glorious presence of God in the throne room of the sanctuary was commissioned to proclaim God’s last message of mercy and to warn the inhabitants of the earth of the calamities and triumph that are coming. The text says that the angel comes with “great authority” (Rev. 18:1, NKJV). The New Testament Greek word for “authority” is exousia. Jesus uses this word in the Gospel of Matthew when sending His disciples out. In Matthew 10:1, Jesus gives His disciples “authority” (NIV) over the principalities and powers of evil. He sends them out with the divine power to be victorious in the battle between good and evil. In Matthew 28:18, 19, He once again sends them out, but this time with “all authority” in heaven and on earth to go and “make disciples of all the nations.”

The great controversy between good and evil in the universe is also about God’s honor, or His reputation. Satan, a rebel angel, has declared that God is unjust—that He demands worship but gives little in return. The evil one declares that God’s law restricts our freedom and limits our joy.

Jesus’ life, death, and resurrection demolished that false claim. The One who created us plunged into the sin of this world to redeem us. On the cross He answered Satan’s charges and demonstrated that God is both loving and just.

Won by His love and concerned for His honor, His end-time people reveal His glory—His loving, self-sacrificing character to a self-centered, godless world, and the earth is illuminated by the character of God.

God’s glory is His character. The earth will be filled with the glory of God when we are filled with the love of God and our characters are changed by that redeeming love. Revealing His love in our personal lives reveals His glory, His character, to the world. The last message to be proclaimed to a world engulfed in spiritual darkness, the one carried by three angels, is a command to “fear God and give glory to Him” (Rev. 14:7).

There is no glory for ourselves in our good works, our righteousness, or our goodness. Ellen G. White affirms this, saying, “The message of Christ’s righteousness is to sound from one end of the earth to the other. . . . This is the glory of God which closes the work of the third angel” (Testimonies for the Church, vol 6, p. 19). White also writes: “What is justification by faith? It is the work of God in laying the glory of man in the dust, and doing for man that which it is not in his power to do for himself” (Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1923], p. 456).

No glory for ourselves, but yes, all the glory to God.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Whose authority are you following now? How do you know?`

` `