---
title:  The Lamb, the Slain Lamb
date:  21/06/2023
---

#### inVite

There are many symbols in Revelation, biblical symbols of importance such as a dragon in heaven (Rev. 12:3, 4, 7), angels flying in the midst of heaven (Rev. 14:6), and a woman riding a scarlet beast (Rev. 17:3). The Holy Spirit inspired John to include them in the Word of God, and they have important roles in revealing truth to those who read the words of this book and do them, for as it says, “Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written in it; for the time is near” (Rev. 1:3).

There is, however, another image that appears over and over all through the book of Revelation. It describes Him as not only a Lamb, but a Lamb “slain” (Rev. 5:6, 12; Rev. 13:8)—that is, Jesus Christ crucified. Here is the heart and soul, not only of the book of Revelation and of the three angels’ messages but also of the whole Bible. We cannot be faithful to our calling, we cannot do the work that God has raised up this church to do, unless we have the slain Lamb, Jesus crucified as a sacrifice for our sins, as the focal point of our message. Ángel Manuel Rodriguez explains this reality as follows:

“We must intentionally place the Lamb that was slain at the very center of our doctrines and mission and at the heart of every sermon we preach, every article we write, every prayer we make, every song we sing, every Bible study we give, and in everything we do. Let the love revealed by the Lamb on the cross transform the way we treat each other and move us to also care for the world” (“The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” unpublished manuscript, 70).

In other words, amid the imagery of dangerous beasts, of a dragon making war, of plagues, of persecution, and of the mark of the beast, there remains front and center the slain Lamb. And He alone, and what He has done for us, is doing now, and will do before it’s all over; He is ultimately what the three angels’ messages are all about.

Journal:

`Meditate on this week’s passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`Why is keeping the slain Lamb at the center of our message crucial not only for leading others to it but also for your own spiritual life?`

` `