---
title:  Out of the Whirlwind
date:   04/12/2016
---

### OUT OF THE WHIRLWIND

(Job 38:1)

`Read Job 38:1. What happens here that is different from everything else in all the other conversations?`

Suddenly and unexpectedly, the Lord now appears in the book of Job. God speaks for the first time since Job 2:6: “The Lord said to Satan, ‘All right. I am handing him [Job] over to you. But you must spare his life’ ” (NIrV). 

Nothing really prepares the reader for this sudden appearance of God. Job 37 ends with Elihu’s speech. And then, “the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind” (Job 38:1). 

The word whirlwind comes from a Hebrew word that means “storm” or “tempest [a violent storm].” It has been used in connection with the appearance of God to humans (read Isaiah 29:6; Zechariah 9:14). It is also the word used to describe Elijah’s being taken to heaven: “When the Lord was about to take Elijah up to heaven in a whirlwind, Elijah and Elisha were on their way from Gilgal” (2 Kings 2:1, NIV, emphasis added). 

The appearance of God to humans is called a theophany. The word theophany comes from two Greek words: “theo” (meaning God) and “phainen” (to show). So theophany is the appearance of God to a person. We do not have any clear description from this chapter in Job of Job’s theophany with God. So we do not know what God looks like here or how He appears to Job. But it is clear that God is not speaking to Job in a “still small voice” (1 Kings 19:12). Instead, the Lord shows Himself in a very powerful way. It certainly gets Job’s attention.

`Read Genesis 15:1–6; Genesis 32:24–32; and John 1:29. What do these verses teach us about how near God can be to us?` 

The Bible teaches us the great and important truth that our God is not a far-off God who created our world and then left us to ourselves. Instead, He is a God who is very close to us. No matter our sorrows, our troubles, or whatever we face in this life, we can have the sure knowledge that God is near and that we can trust Him.

`It is one thing to believe that God is near us. But do we feel we are near Him? How can you learn to come close to God and to receive hope and comfort from this relationship?`