---
title:  GOD’S QUESTION
date:   05/12/2016
---

### GOD’S QUESTION

(Job 38:2)

After what must seem to Job like a very long silence, God finally speaks to him. But what God first says might not be what Job wants to hear. 

`Read Job 38:2. What is the first question that God asks Job? And what is suggested in that question?` 

All through the Bible we find God asking humans questions. God does not ask questions because He does not know the answers. Instead, as a good teacher often does, God asks questions because they are a good way to get us to think about our situation. He also asks questions to cause us to face ourselves, help us work through issues, and come to a proper understanding. So the questions that God asks are not to teach Him something that He already does not understand. Rather, His questions often are asked in order to help people learn things that perhaps they need to understand better. God’s questions are a tool to help reach people with truth.

`Read the questions from God found in Genesis 3:11; Genesis 4:9; 1 Kings 19:9; Acts 9:4; and Matthew 16:13. What do you think God’s purpose is in asking those questions? What point is He making?` 

Job has a lot to say about God. And the Lord clearly wants Job to understand that there is a lot he does not know or understand about his Creator. In many ways, God’s opening question to Job is the same as some of the words that his friends say to him earlier (read Job 8:1, 2; Job 11:1–3; Job 15:1–3). 

`Suppose God were to ask you a question about the state of your spiritual life right now. What do you think He would ask? And what would you answer? What do the question and the answer teach you about yourself?`