---
title:  THE LORD AS CREATOR
date:   06/12/2016
---

### THE LORD AS CREATOR

(Job 38:4–41)

`Read Job 38:4–41. What questions does God ask Job? And what is the purpose of those questions?`

If Job expects a careful explanation about why all these terrible events have happened to him, he does not get it. Instead, what he gets is a flow of rhetorical1 questions that show how the Lord’s creative power is greater than Job’s limited understanding. Job in comparison is short-lived and ignorant (knowing little).

“  ‘Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth?’  ” the Lord begins (Job 38:4, NKJV). God repeats some of the earliest scenes in Genesis—for example, the beginnings of the earth, the sea, light, and darkness. Then God says ironically2 to Job, “ ‘I am sure you know! After all, you already were born! You have lived so many years!’ ” (read Job 38:21, NIrV). 

The Lord then points to wonders and mysteries of Creation, again with a series of rhetorical (for effect) questions. These questions cover the foundations of the earth and the mysteries of the weather and even of the stars themselves. “ ‘Can you tie up the beautiful Pleiades?3 Can you untie the ropes that hold Orion4 together?’ ” (Job 38:31, NIrV). God then points Job back to the earth, to everything from human understanding (Job 38:36) to the lives of wild animals (Job 38:39–41). It is a theme that is explained in more detail all through Job 39. Had the book been written today, the Lord might have asked, “Who ties together the quarks5 in protons6 and neutrons?”7 “Where were you when I first measured out a Planck mass?”8 “Is it by your wisdom that gravity bends space and time?”

The answer to all these questions is the same: of course not! Job was not there for any of those events. He has little knowledge about any of the wonders. God’s point is to show Job that he might have some wisdom and knowledge and that he spoke “right” (Job 42:7) about God, which is something these other men do not do. But Job still knows so little. And his lack of knowledge is shown by how little he truly knows about the mysteries of the created world. 

If Job knows so little about the Creation, how much could he understand about the Creator? What a powerful difference between the Creator and the humans He created. God shows how different He is from Job—how different He is from any of us (except Jesus). How very little and unimportant we are in comparison with God! But look at what this God has done to save us and how He has offered us the hope of eternal fellowship with Him!

#### DEFINITIONS

1.	rhetorical (questions)—asked to make a statement or a point for effect rather than to get an answer. 
2.	ironically—using words that mean the opposite of what you really think in a humorous (funny) way to make a point.
3.	Pleiades—a very noticeable cluster (bunch) of stars.
4.	Orion—a group of stars in the sky that looks like a hunter with a line of three bright stars for a belt.
5.	quarks—in physics, any one of several types of very small particles that make up matter.
6.	protons—in physics, a very small particle of matter that is part of the nucleus of an atom and that has a positive electrical charge.
7.	neutrons—in physics, a very small particle of matter that has no electrical charge and is a part of the nucleus of all atoms except hydrogen atoms.
8.	Planck mass—a unit of measurement for mass used in physics. Physics is a science that deals with matter and energy and the way they act on each other in heat, light, electricity, and sound. The Planck mass was named after Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck (1858–1947). Planck was a German physicist. A physicist is a scientist who studies or specializes in physics.