---
title:  THE WISDOM OF THE WISE
date:   07/12/2016
---

### THE WISDOM OF THE WISE

(1 Corinthians 3:19)

From our point of view today, it is easy to study the questions that God asks Job and realize how little a man like Job, who lived thousands of years ago, could understand about the created world. It was not until the a.d. 1500s that humans (at least some of them) finally understood that the sun moves in the sky because the earth spins on its axis.9

Thanks mostly to modern science, we have knowledge of the natural world that people in Bible times did not have. Even with all this knowledge that we have received, we humans still are limited in our understanding of the natural world and its beginnings.

`Read over the questions God asks Job in chapters 38 and 39. How much better could people answer them today?` 

It is true that science has shown to us things that were once hidden from our understanding. But there is still so much more for us to learn. In many ways, far from removing the wonders and mystery of God’s creation, science has made it even more interesting. Science has shown how deep and wonderful the natural world is in ways that people who lived before us knew nothing about. 

“ ‘The Lord our God keeps certain things hidden. But he makes other things known to us and our children forever’ (Deuteronomy 29:29, NIrV). Just how God created the world He has never shown to men. Human science cannot search out the secrets of the Most High God. We cannot ever understand God’s life and power.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Forefathers and Leaders] and Prophets [Special Messengers], page 113.

`Read 1 Corinthians 3:19 and 1 Corinthians 1:18–27. What warning should we take from these verses about the great limits of human knowledge?` 

Even with all the knowledge humans have built up in the past few hundred years, the Creation remains full of wonders and mysteries, of which we can understand very little. The more we learn about the created world, the more amazing and mysterious it appears to us. In what ways does the created world cause you to admire the power of our God?

#### DEFINITIONS

9.	axis—the imaginary straight line that something such as the earth turns around.
