---
title:  REPENTING IN DUST AND ASHES
date:   08/12/2016
---

### REPENTING IN DUST AND ASHES 

(Job 40:1–4; Job 42:1–6)

`Read Job 40:1–4 and Job 42:1–6. What does Job say to God after God makes Himself known to Job?`  

Clearly Job is affected very strongly by what God has shown him. In fact, in Job 42:3, Job says, “You asked me, 

‘ “Who do you think you [Job] are to disagree with my [God’s] plans?” ’ ” (NIrV). Job is repeating God’s first question to him. Job knows the answer now: it is Job himself who speaks about what he really does not know. 

Notice, too, what Job says in Job 42:5. He only has heard about God before, but now he has seen God. And now Job has a better understanding of God. Job, too, sees himself for what he really is. That is why he feels as he does now. He “hates” his sinfulness and repents (feels sorrow for his sin) in dust and ashes. 

`Read Isaiah 6:1–5 and Luke 5:1–8. How are the feelings described there nearly the same as Job’s?` 

What we find in all these cases are examples of a key Bible truth. They make known the sinfulness of humans. Job does “what was right. He had respect for God and avoided evil” (Job 1:1, NIrV). Satan works hard to turn Job against God, but Job stays faithful through it all. We find here a solid, faithful believer in the Lord (Job).  

And yet—what? As with Isaiah and Peter, a glimpse of the holiness and power of God is enough to make Job feel guilty, sensing his own sinfulness and smallness. Next to God, we are all fallen, sin-damaged beings. Our very nature itself brings us into conflict11 with God. That is why, in the end, no one can save himself. No one can do enough good works to deserve any favor before God. That is why we all need grace12—even the “best” among us, those who, like Job, are upright and blameless and who fear God and avoid evil. We need a Savior. We need Someone to do for us what we can never do for ourselves. Fortunately, we have all that, and more, in Jesus. 

`Imagine yourself, right now, standing face to face before God. How do you think you would feel or act in His presence?`

#### DEFINITIONS

10.	repenting—feeling sorry for having sinned and turning away from sin with the help of the Holy Spirit.
11.	conflict—a struggle; a strong disagreement between people or groups; also a fight; battle; war.
12.	grace—God’s gift of mercy and forgiveness that He freely gives us to take away our sins.