---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   09/12/2016
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:

“God has permitted a flood of light to be poured upon the world in both science and art. But when men of science deal with or think upon these subjects from a human point of view, they will come to wrong ideas. Suppose those who leave the Word of God [the Bible] try to explain God’s created works through scientific principles [important rules]. Then they would be drifting without chart or compass upon an unknown ocean. The greatest minds, if not guided by the Word of God in their research, become confused in their search to explain differences between science and God. Because the Creator and His works are so far beyond their limits of understanding, they are unable to explain the Creator and His works by natural laws. They think of Bible history as untrue. Those who doubt the records of the Old and New Testaments will be led to doubt that God is real. Then they will have lost their anchor. And they are left to crash upon the rocks of unfaithfulness.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 113.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

- `Look at the Ellen G. White statement in Friday’s study. What proof do we have that what she warned about is really happening, especially in the area of science? What are some things that science teaches that rebel against God’s Word?` 

- `Alfred North Whitehead, a well-known mathematician and author who lived in the 1800s, said the following: “Fifty-seven years ago I was a young man in the University of Cambridge. I was taught science and mathematics by brilliant men and I did well in them. Since the turn of the century [early 1900s], I have lived to see every one of the principles of truth I was taught become set aside as false. . . . And yet, in the face of that, the discoverers of the new theories [unproved ideas] in science are saying, ‘Now at last, we have truth.’ ”—Adapted from A. N. Whitehead, Dialogues of Alfred North Whitehead. What should this tell us about how careful we need to be in accepting what the world’s “great men” teach us? (This warning is especially true when their teachings conflict [do not agree] with God’s Word.)`

- `What are some of the wonders of Creation that modern science has shown to us that people in the time of Job (or even just two hundred years ago) could not have understood? How do these things show us even more the wonderful creative power of our Lord?`