---
title:  Jesus Wakes Up From The Dead
date:  05/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 27:51–53, 62–66; Matthew 28:1–6; John 20:11–29.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “When I saw him, I fell at his feet as if I were dead. Then he put his right hand on me and said, ‘Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last. I am the Living One. I was dead. But now look! I am alive for ever and ever! And I hold the keys to Death and Hell’ ” (Revelation 1:17, 18, NIrV).

What is one of the most important teachings of the Christian faith? That Jesus did wake up from the dead, of course. Paul tells us that if Jesus did not wake up, we would be lost: “If those [people] who have died are not raised [come back to life from the dead], then Christ [Jesus] has not been raised either [also]. And if Christ has not been raised from death, then your faith is for nothing; you are still [continue to be] guilty of your sins. And those [people] in Christ who have already died are lost” (1 Corinthians 15:16–18, ERV).

Paul talks a lot about Jesus’ death: “I decided that while I was with you I would forget about everything except Jesus Christ and his death on the cross” (1 Corinthians 2:2, ERV). Yes, Jesus died. But we also need to remember that Jesus woke up from the dead. That Jesus did wake up is important to Christians because we understand that Jesus will wake us, too.

This week, we will study about Jesus’ resurrection. We’ll look at all the proof Jesus gave us to believe that He woke up from the dead.