---
title:  A Locked Grave 
date:  06/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When Jesus died on the cross, many people thought that Jesus’ work was over. Worse, some people thought that Jesus failed. Satan led Judas to “sell” Jesus to His enemies (Luke 22:3, 4; John 13:26, 27). The top religious leaders asked the Roman governor to kill Jesus (Matthew 26:59; Matthew 27:20). After Jesus was arrested, all His “followers left him and ran away” (Matthew 26:56, ERV). Then at three different times in one night, Peter said that he didn’t know Jesus (Matthew 26:69–75). Now Jesus rested in a grave. The grave was carved into a big rock. Roman soldiers put a large stone in front of the grave and locked Jesus’ dead body inside. Then the soldiers stood guard (Matthew 27:57–66). Demons also watched the grave. “Satan wanted to keep Jesus locked inside the grave forever.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 12, page 412, adapted.

During His time on earth, Jesus told His followers about His death on the cross and His resurrection or waking up from the dead. Jesus said, “ ‘Evil and sinful [filled with sin] people are the ones who want to see a miracle for a sign. But no sign will be given to them. The only sign will be what happened to the prophet [preacher] Jonah. Jonah was in the stomach [belly] of the big fish for three days and three nights. In the same way, the Son of Man will be in the grave three days and three nights’ ” (Matthew 12:39, 40, ICB). Other times, Jesus said that He was going to be killed, but He would wake up from the dead on the third day (Matthew 16:21; Matthew 17:22, 23; Matthew 20:17–19). The top religious leaders knew that Jesus said these things. So, they did everything possible to make sure that Jesus wouldn’t wake up from the dead and escape.

`What did the religious leaders do to make sure that Jesus did not wake up from the dead? Read Matthew 27:62–66 for the answer. How did these things later help to show that Jesus really did wake up from the dead?`

The religious leaders did so much to make sure that Jesus would stay locked in the grave forever. Maybe the leaders feared deep in their hearts that Jesus really was going to wake up.