---
title:  He’s Alive! 
date:  07/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

At the cross, Jesus beat Satan and his evil army. The empty grave was proof that Jesus won. “When Jesus was put in the grave, Satan thought that he won. Satan hoped that Jesus would not wake up from the dead. Satan said that he owned the Lord’s body. So, Satan sent his angels to guard Jesus’ grave to keep Jesus a prisoner. Satan got very angry when his angels ran away because God’s angel came from heaven. When Satan saw Jesus come out of the grave alive, Satan knew that his kingdom was going to end. Satan knew that he finally was going to die.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 782, adapted. Remember, Jesus was fully human and fully God. When Jesus died, only Jesus the Man died. But Jesus as God did not die. As God, Jesus had the strength to wake up from the dead.

`Who helped wake up Jesus? How does Jesus’ resurrection or waking up from the dead give us hope? Read Matthew 28:1–6; John 10:17, 18; and Romans 8:11 for the answers.`

When Jesus worked in Samaria-Peraea, Jesus announced that He can give up His life freely. He also said that He can get His life back again (John 10:17, 18). Jesus said to Martha, “ ‘I am the resurrection [the One who can wake people up from the dead]. I am life’ ” (John 11:25, ERV). Other verses in the Bible say that God resurrected Jesus. That is, God woke up Jesus from the dead (Acts 2:24; Romans 8:11; Galatians 1:1; Hebrews 13:20). God sent a powerful angel from heaven to roll away the big stone in front of Jesus’ grave (Matthew 28:1, 2).

In Matthew 28:11–15, we see that the religious leaders continue to fight against Jesus. The Roman soldiers who guarded Jesus’ grave come to the leaders. The soldiers “tell the leading priests [religious leaders] everything that happened” (Matthew 28:11, ERV). What does the soldiers’ report show us? Their report shows us that the soldiers saw Jesus wake up from the dead!

The soldiers’ report deeply upset the priests. So, the religious leaders “paid the soldiers a lot of money” (Matthew 28:12, ERV). The priests told the soldiers to lie about what happened. So, the soldiers told everyone that Jesus’ followers stole His body.