---
title:  Many People Also Wake Up From The Dead 
date:  08/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Then the curtain in the Temple split into two pieces. The tear started at the top and tore all the way down to the bottom. Also, the earth shook and rocks broke apart. The graves opened, and many of God’s people who had died were raised [woke up] from death. They came out of the graves after Jesus was raised from death. They went into the holy city, and many people saw them” (Matthew 27:51–53, ICB). What does this surprising story teach us about the time when Jesus woke up from the dead? What does Jesus’ waking up from the dead or resurrection mean for His followers?

When Jesus died, an earthquake shook the ground (Matthew 27:50, 51). Another earthquake happened when Jesus woke up from the dead (Matthew 28:2). In Matthew 27:51–53, we saw that God woke up many of His people from their graves. Then these people went into Jerusalem and talked with many people in that city. God woke up these saints from the dead to be witnesses for Jesus. These saints told everybody that Jesus woke up from the dead. These saints are a symbol of God’s people who will wake up from the dead at the Second Coming. So, right after Jesus’ resurrection, God gave the Jewish people powerful proof that Jesus was the Savior. Many people, including many priests, accepted Jesus (read Acts 6:7).

“During Jesus’ work on earth, Jesus woke up the dead. He brought them back to life. Jesus woke up the son of the widow of Nain. Jesus woke up Jairus’s daughter and Lazarus from the dead. After Jesus woke them all up, they continued to live again. But they must die in the future. But not the people that woke up from the grave when Jesus was resurrected. No, God gave these people everlasting life. Then these saints went up to heaven with Jesus. They were Jesus’ living trophies. That is, these saints were proof that Jesus won. Jesus beat death and the grave. . . . God’s holy people went into Jerusalem after God woke them up from the dead. They announced to many people in the city that Jesus woke up from the dead, and they woke up with Him. In this way, God gave us everlasting proof for the Bible’s teaching about the resurrection.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 786, adapted.

Yes, things in life may get very bad at times. But why can we trust that Jesus already won the fight for us?