---
title:  Witnesses Who Saw Jesus After He Woke Up From The Dead 
date:  09/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What did the followers do when they met Jesus after He woke up from the dead? Read John 20:11–29 for the answer.`

The two angels at the empty grave told Mary Magdalene and some other women that Jesus woke up from the dead (Matthew 28:1, 5–7; Mark 16:1–7; Luke 24:1–11). But soon Jesus Himself came to the women. They worshiped Him (Matthew 28:1, 9, 10; John 20:14–18). Jesus also appeared to Peter (Luke 24:34; 1 Corinthians 15:5) and to His two followers on their way to Emmaus. They were excited as Jesus talked with them (Mark 16:12; Luke 24:13–35). When Jesus came to the upper room, His followers were very afraid for a short time. Then they were filled with joy at what happened (Luke 24:33–49; John 20:19–23). A week later, Jesus appeared in the same room. He didn’t open any doors before He entered. No one knew how He got into the room. Then the followers believed that Jesus was alive (John 20:24–29).

40 days passed between Jesus’ resurrection and His going to heaven. During that time, “more than 500 of His followers saw Him at one time” (1 Corinthians 15:6, NLV). James also saw Jesus (1 Corinthians 15:7). Jesus joined some of His followers on the beach at the Sea of Galilee. There, Jesus ate breakfast with His followers. Then Jesus talked with Peter (John 21:1–23). Jesus also may have shown Himself to other people (Acts 1:3) before He went to heaven (Luke 24:50–53; Acts 1:1–11). Paul also saw Jesus with his own eyes. Jesus appeared to Paul on the road to Damascus (1 Corinthians 15:8; compare with Acts 9:1–9).

When Jesus’ followers first told Thomas that they saw Jesus, Thomas doubted. “Thomas said, ‘That’s hard to believe. I will have to see the nail holes in his hands, put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side. Only then will I believe it’ ” (John 20:25). A week later, Jesus came to His followers again. Thomas also was there. Jesus said to Thomas, “ ‘Put your finger here. Look at my hands. Put your hand here in my side. Stop doubting and believe’ ” (John 20:27, ERV). “Thomas said to him, ‘My Lord and my God!’ Then Jesus told him, ‘You believe because you see me. Those who believe without seeing me will be truly [for sure] happy’ ” (John 20:29, ICB).