---
title:  The First One 
date:  10/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:20. Also, read Deuteronomy 26:1–11. Why does Paul say that Jesus is “the first one [person who wakes up from the dead] and proof that those [people] who are asleep in death will also be raised [brought back to life from the dead]” (ICB)?`

When Paul says that Jesus is “proof” that God will wake up the dead, Paul gives us important information. Paul tells us that we will be the same as Jesus. When Jesus wakes up, we see how our bodies will look when God wakes us up from the dead, too.

Remember, Jesus woke up from the dead with a new human body. His human body was everlasting. But Jesus had the nail marks from the cross in His hands and feet. His side was marked by the spear that stabbed Him (John 20:20, 27). Does this mean that when we wake up from the dead, our bodies also will be marked by the scars from the hurt and pain we suffered in the past?

Paul “saw Jesus in His glory. The light from heaven blinded [his] eyes [read Acts 9:1–9]. For the rest of his life, Paul’s eyes showed that they had been scarred by this light.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 275, adapted. But do Paul’s words mean that we will wake up from the dead with bodies that have marks and scars from our suffering in this life (compare 1 Corinthians 15:50–54)? No. We will have new bodies without any scars. But Jesus is different. Jesus’ body “will always show the marks of His suffering for us on the cross. The nail marks in His hands will tell the story that He died to save us. The nail marks will show the price that Jesus paid to buy our freedom from the punishment of sin and death.”—Ellen G. White, Early Writings, page 179, adapted. Jesus’ scars are proof that we won’t have any scars when we wake up from the dead. Our scars will be gone forever.

`Jesus always will have the scars from the cross. What do His scars show us about God’s love for us? What do His scars also show us about what it cost God to save us? How much did God “spend” to save us?`