---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “In Joseph’s Tomb,” pages 769–778; “ ‘The Lord Is Risen,’ ” pages 779–787; “ ‘Why Weepest Thou?’ ”, pages 788–794; “The Walk to Emmaus,” pages 795–801; “ ‘Peace Be Unto You,’ ” pages 802–808; in The Desire of Ages.

“Jesus cried from the cross: ‘It is finished.’ The dead heard the cry of Jesus. Jesus’ cry entered the graves. His voice called the sleepers there to wake up. The same thing will happen at the Second Coming. Jesus’ voice will be heard from the sky. His voice will enter the graves and open them. The dead in Jesus will wake up. They will come out of their graves. When Jesus woke up from the dead, a few graves opened. But at Jesus’ Second Coming, all the precious dead shall hear Jesus’ voice. Then they shall leave their graves with everlasting life. The same strength that woke up Jesus from the dead will wake up His church from the dead. Then God will honor His church and Jesus above all leaders, fallen angels, and every name that is known. God and His church will be honored in this earth and in the new earth, too.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 787, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“ ‘It is finished,’ ” (John 19:30, ERV) and “ ‘He has risen [woke up] from death’ ” (Matthew 28:6, ERV) are two of the most powerful quotes in human history. How do these words help us understand God’s plan?`

`At first, the religious leaders wanted soldiers to guard Jesus’ grave. The leaders wanted to make sure that Jesus’ followers did not steal the body of Jesus. Later, the religious leaders paid the soldiers to say that Jesus’ followers did steal the body. How does this story help us understand that Jesus really did wake up from the dead? Why is Jesus’ empty grave so important to Christians?`