---
title:  Countercultural
date:  09/09/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 18; 20**

**Countercultural**

Leviticus 18 is all about upholding sexual integrity in a global culture jaded by many sexual perversions. This chapter and the laws given within it carefully protect both women and children from sexual abuse. These laws expound on the seventh commandment, which says, “You shall not commit adultery” (Exod. 20:14). There are some today who pride themselves in not breaking this commandment since they have not cheated on their spouse, but this chapter expands the meaning of “adultery” to include a variety of perversions.

Before we look at some of the sexual issues discussed in this chapter, let’s remember that God created sex. He is the architect of one of the most wonderful bonding experiences in life (Gen. 1:27, 28; 2:25). He deserves the credit and deserves to have a generation of people who practice sexuality as He designed it.

In contrast to the beliefs and practices of Egypt and the land of Canaan (Lev. 18:3), biblical sexuality as defined in the Garden of Eden was to be covenantal, permanent, monogamous, heterosexual, and between two human beings. (To learn more, check out the inVerse study guide titled Principles of Biblical Sexuality.) Because Israel had just come out of Egypt and were heading straight for the Promised Land in Canaan, God wanted to state clearly what was and what wasn’t proper sexual integrity.

Leviticus 18 and 20 are both relevant and countercultural still today. Our culture encourages and celebrates sexual perversion and uses it for entertainment. Sexual sin is the cause of much of the disease, divorce, crime, heartbreak, and many other kinds of evils that plague us (1 Cor. 6:18). God calls us to the path that brings the most happiness, joy, peace, fulfillment, and health.

#### inScribe

Write out 1 Corinthians 6:9–11 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite Leviticus 18 and 20 in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `