---
title:  Five Reasons
date:  10/09/2023
---

#### inGest

God provides five major reasons in Leviticus 18 for why we should choose sexual purity: First, because He says so! Four verses in the beginning of the chapter repeat the statement “I am the Lord” (vv. 2, 4–6), with verse 4 rather plainly saying we are to obey His laws because He is God. The Lord’s people are answerable to Him; they are under His authority and are therefore required to keep His laws. God is the one who defines purity, not us.

Second, living obediently to the Lord is good for us and brings joy into our lives, an idea that is expressed in verse 5: “If you obey my decrees and my regulations, you will find life through them. I am the Lord” (NLT). Notice that this verse is not simply a command, but a promise as well. God establishes clear sexual boundaries to protect the happiness of families and the human dignity of individuals. If sexually aberrant behavior were for our best development, God would never have prohibited them by name the way He did in Leviticus 18 and 20 and Matthew 5. God’s laws are not arbitrary. They are always for our health, wellness, and happiness.

Third, if we do not choose to be sexually pure, there will be severe consequences not only in this life but in the life to come (Rom. 6:23; 1 Cor. 6:9, 10). Sin is a severe and cruel debt collector! Like a predator, sin stalks us through sexual temptation, hoping to destroy our health, families, marriages, reputation, careers, and ministries (see 1 Pet. 5:8). Like an assassin, it seeks to slay us with guilt, regret, and condemnation, but—praise God!—we have Jesus, and the Bible promises that “He will save His people from their sins” (Matt. 1:21).

Fourth, God calls us to sexual pureness because He is holy—set apart from sin—and expects His people to be holy and set apart from the world as well (Lev. 19:2). The entire book of Leviticus has one primary value: holiness, in the food we eat, in our treatment of others, in how we approach God, in our sexuality. Christians abstain from divergent sexual practices because they know that they belong to God and that their sexual integrity will benefit not only them but society in general as well.

Finally, God wants us to live sexually pure lives to protect others. It is hard to imagine a more relevant chapter for people living in our day. Today’s news is filled with horrific stories of abuse, abandonment, neglect, and heartache. One consequence of our sexual sins against others is that it dishonors them. Other consequences that appear are jealousy, tension, and rivalry (Lev. 18). Like many Christians today, the Israelites lived between two sexually perverted cultures that openly or secretly embraced premarital sex, adultery, incest, homosexuality, bestiality, pedophilia, and rape (vv. 3–23).

God is speaking through Moses in this chapter, so we know these instructions come backed by the highest Authority in the universe (vv. 1, 2). God is the authority behind these commands, not Hollywood, your culture, or even your church or pastor. In this countercultural chapter God clears the air regarding these things not only for Israel but for every nation and all humanity living today.

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What are other reasons you can think of for the sexual boundaries God established?`