---
title:  Impure Desires
date:  11/09/2023
---

#### inTerpret

What should a Christian do if he or she has sexually impure desires? First, they must realize they are not alone in their struggle; sexual temptation is one of the biggest temptations humans this side of eternity will face. Second, nowhere in the Bible is a person condemned for being tempted—it is only in acting on the temptation that sin takes place. Third, the victory is won or lost in the mind. The Bible says to take “every thought into captivity” and make it obedient to Jesus (2 Cor. 10:5). When we allow ourselves to dwell on impure thoughts, watch movies or listen to songs that have sexual themes, or engage with sexual content online, we are weakening ourselves and giving sexual sin greater power over our lives.

Fourth, they should surround themselves with others who can encourage them in their decision to live fully for the Lord regarding their sexuality. Be careful about organizations in the community, school, or even church that subtly or even openly promote sexual deviations from God’s Word. In Romans 1:32 God warns not only those who engage in these lifestyles but also those who watch approvingly from a distance. Of course, “from a distance” could include listening to their lyrics, joining their culture, or keeping company with them as they engage in those things.

Fifth, do not be surprised that living a sexually pure life inevitably involves struggle. Dying to self so that we can live for Christ is a workout! It requires much prayer, Bible study, self-control, and even strategic planning (e.g., getting to bed early, avoiding certain places, guarding our entertainment choices, installing safeguards). But never forget this: as Christians, we fight from victory, not for victory. In Jesus we have already won, so walk like a winner—walk like a soldier who has already defeated his enemy!

Sixth, use the Bible like a sword, for that is what it’s called in Ephesians 6:17: “the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God” (emphasis added). Interestingly, the Greek word for “word” is rhema, which means the spoken Word of God. Like Jesus when He faced Satan’s temptations in the wilderness, we must speak out loud the promises of God when we are faced with temptation (Matt. 4).

Seventh, expect God to do a miracle, for He promises to in 1 Corinthians 6:11. Though some people may have been born with a propensity toward a particular sexual sin, been sexually abused and led into sin, or gotten themselves enslaved to a particular sin by engaging in it, Jesus still does miracles today. We shouldn’t be afraid to ask Him for one—to ask Him to help us desire sexual pureness and live in such a way that honors Him and brings us freedom from fear and guilt. He will do it. God may show us other steps to take in the journey, but just know that our failings on the straight and narrow are failings forward, not backward. Don’t be discouraged. God will not abandon His faithful warriors, especially when they stumble in the fight.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What other questions emerge from this study?`