---
title:  The Order of the Order
date:  13/09/2023
---

#### inVite

Where’s Jesus in this week’s study of Leviticus 18? Jesus is the source of life, and when we obey Him, we experience that life flowing through us. Some wonder if Leviticus is a legalistic book, or, to put it differently, if life is given conditionally based on obedience. The Bible teaches that life, joy, and fulfillment here on earth are often dependent on obeying God (Deut. 6:2; 8:2, 3; 30:12), but life in the world to come (meaning immortality) is dependent entirely on repentance and faith in Christ (Acts 20:12; Rom. 10:5; Gal. 3:12). Salvation is possible only through the good works that Jesus did on our behalf. Only by His blood, sweat, and tears can we gain forgiveness for our sins and assurance of salvation and right standing with God. We are not saved by being sexually pure or by keeping any of the other commandments either. No matter what superficial categories may divide us, we are all in the same category of depending completely on the grace of Christ for salvation.

One of the most amazing discoveries to make in Scripture is the truth that when we experience the unconditional kindness of God, called grace, we are supernaturally empowered to overcome any sin, obstacle, or challenge in our lives (Rom. 6:14; Titus 2:11–13). The grace displayed on Calvary moves us not only to renounce sin but also to live holy and committed lives for God.

Perhaps you remember the story of the adulterous woman in John 8, whom the religious leaders caught sleeping with someone else’s husband. She was then dragged out in public and condemned for adultery. There are a lot of unknowns in this story, such as where the man she was sleeping with was for the trial, but you may remember that they brought her to Jesus, no doubt because this whole thing was a setup to trap Him in His words and have Him killed. Instead of falling into the trap, Jesus knelt and wrote the accusers’ sins in the dirt for all to see. One by one, the church leaders made a rather hasty exit. After a short exchange with the woman, Jesus said some of the most powerful words ever addressed to someone whose sexual life is impure but who wants to live a pure and holy life for God: “Neither do I condemn you; go and sin no more” (v. 11). Notice that Jesus did not reverse the order, as many do today; He did not tell her to stop sinning before offering her forgiveness. He gave her grace first, and then, from a position of forgiveness, love, and right standing with God, commanded her to sin no more. Wow! Can you see how grace can give a person victory over any sin? Jesus says the same thing to us right now. “Sister, Brother, neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more.”

Wouldn’t it be wonderful if we made this our strategy for helping those within our churches and communities who struggle with various sexual sins? What if, like Jesus, we too were filled with grace and truth and not only loved them unconditionally but also told them the truth about both the danger of their sins and God’s command to live in freedom?

**Meditate on Leviticus 18; 20 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`Jesus offers forgiveness before repentance. What does this reveal about His nature? How does this inspire hope?`

`What can we do to help those who struggle with sexual sins feel comfortable and loved enough to ask for help? How can we avoid making them feel ostracized and judged by the church?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`