---
title: 'Following the Lamb'
date: 21/06/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Revelation 21, 22

What does the future hold for you? What lies ahead? It might seem daunting, exciting, scary, and wonderful all at once. Know that Jesus is faithful and that His words are true (Rev. 3:14). There will yet be turbulent times ahead (Matt. 24:21, 22), but He has promised that He will never leave or forsake you (Heb. 13:5). He will do exactly what He says He will do—always has and always will (Heb. 10:23). And “he who endures to the end shall be saved” (Matt. 24:13).

Regardless of the number of days left for us on earth, we should fix our eyes on Jesus, looking steadfastly to Him. This is not always easy in a world that clamors for our attention, but may we, like David, say, “My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for He shall pluck my feet out of the net” (Ps. 25:15).

This week, we will focus on the reward of heaven (Matt. 5:12; Rev. 22:12), what heaven will be like, and how incredible it will be to finally be with One who created us, loved us unto death, redeemed us from sin, and is coming back soon. We just need to hold on in faith until then.

Have you ever been asked what you’re most looking forward to in eternity? If you ask a child, they might say, “Riding a tiger,” “Sliding down a giraffe’s neck,” or “Flying to different planets.” If you were to ask a teenager, they might say, “Not having to do any more schoolwork” or “Exploring heaven with my friends without getting hurt.” If you were to ask a group of adults, they might say, “Being in a place where there’s no more pain, suffering, or death” or “Being reunited with loved ones.” All these responses reflect aspects of what heaven will be like, but they only begin to hint at the wonders awaiting us in the new heaven and the new earth. Eternity burns within our hearts, and intrinsically we know there must be something more to life than the here and now.

Surely the greatest blessing of heaven will be to finally see Jesus and to thank Him, in person, for what He has done for us on this fallen earth. We will want to lavish Him with adoration and worship for saving us, by His own suffering on the cross, from eternal death. “Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom, and strength and honor and glory and blessing!” (Rev. 5:12).

John the Baptist introduced Jesus as the “Lamb of God” (John 1:35–37). The disciples followed Him closely, and Revelation says that we will do the same. “These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes” (Rev. 14:4). However, for us to want to follow Him in heaven, we must first follow Him here on earth.

Jesus, the Lamb, is also our Shepherd, and He guides our paths as no other can. This is so reassuring for us as we struggle through the hard times that we find ourselves in, but Jesus will never stop leading us, even in heaven. Revelation 7:17 says, “For the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and lead them to living fountains of waters.” As His people, His sheep, we will follow Jesus in heaven, forever wanting to be in His presence. One defining characteristic of God’s people is that “His name shall be on their foreheads” (Rev. 22:4). That is, we will always be thinking of Him.

As you reflect on following the Lamb now and into eternity, listen to this special Seventh-day Adventist gospel song “Follow the Lamb” at https://vimeo.com/1067821589 and make the words your personal prayer today.

### inScribe

`Read Revelation 21 and 22 and make an outline or mind-map of these last two chapters of the Bible. Write out Revelation 21:2–5 from the translation of your choice and imagine the reward that God has prepared for His people.`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.