---
title: 'The Bride'
date: 22/06/2026
---

### inGest

While exiled on the island of Patmos, the disciple John was given a vision of what it will be like when we are reunited with God for eternity. In describing God united with His people, John uses the analogy of a wedding. A wedding is an event that people look forward to with much anticipation. Because of their love for one another, couples who are engaged to get married count down the days until their wedding when they will begin to dwell together.

When the wedding day arrives, the bride is beautiful, and everyone wants to see her. A wedding day is a turning point of a new life together for the bride and groom, and this will also be true of our relationship with God upon His return.

Jesus has been preparing a place for us (John 14:1–3), a beautiful place that is too amazing to describe. In fact, “human language is inadequate to describe the reward of the righteous. It will be known only to those who behold it. No finite mind can comprehend the glory of the Paradise of God.”<sup>1</sup>

Although we cannot really comprehend what the new heaven and new earth will be like, God showed John a vision of this place so that we can look forward to the “wedding” that will soon happen. Indeed, we’re invited to “set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth” (Col. 3:2). God is carefully preparing for this event, and He doesn’t want this “wedding” to catch us by surprise (Matt. 25:13).

The universe is the congregation that will see this event take place, and we are some of the central figures in this story. We will join with the “bride,” this city that Jesus will take us to at His second coming. Interestingly, God’s people (the saints) are also called the bride (Rev. 19:7, NASB), perhaps because they are in “the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband” (Rev. 21:2).

This beautiful description of the Holy City shows that there is an intimate connection between God’s people and the city, because both are called “the bride.” Revelation 21 presents a detailed description of “the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, which is the capital and representative of the kingdom, [and] is called ‘the bride, the Lamb’s wife.’”<sup>2</sup>

Because of His great love for us, God looks forward to His wedding day with us and longs for us to be ready to dwell with Him forever. He is preparing for this day, and He invites us to prepare as well.

**Questions to explore:**

Why is this so hard for us now to imagine? How do we even begin to wrap our minds around what God promises to us in eternity?

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (1911), 674.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> White, The Great Controversy, 426.