---
title:  Finally, Face to Face
date:   22/06/2026
---

### inTerpret

We were made to be close to God (Gen. 2:7). Ever since He created humankind, God has given everything to restore our broken relationship with Him (John 3:16). He has placed eternity in our hearts, yet human beings cannot fathom what God has done from the beginning to the end (Eccles. 3:11). We’re part of the great controversy raging around us—even in us—yet too often we don’t pause long enough to consider the great cost of what God sacrificed to restore us to the relationship He intends for us to have with Him. Too often, we find ourselves wrapped up in our earthly battles and trials, forgetting that “our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to His glorious body” (Phil. 3:20, 21).

As the world plummets closer to the end, we know that a small white cloud will one day appear in the eastern sky. As it comes closer and closer, we’ll see on that cloud “One like the Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle” (Rev. 14:14). Thousands upon thousands of angels will accompany Jesus (Matt. 25:31), and every eye will see Him (Rev. 1:7). As He descends, we’ll hear His shout, a trumpet call of God, and the tombs of those who fell asleep in Christ will open as they rise first (1 Thess. 4:16). They will know the voice of the One who calls them (John 5:28). They will see the face of their Redeemer as they ascend to meet Him in the air.

What an utterly incredible, magnificent thought! One day we will see Jesus—really, truly see Him. We will hear His voice, and we will confess that He is Lord. The One whom we’ve read about, prayed to, spoken of with others—the One whom our hearts have longed for… we will actually see Him face to face. We can be sure of this, for God is faithful, and His promises are true (Rev. 22:6).

In that moment, when the trumpets sound and every human eye sees Jesus, we’ll know it’s been worth the wait. Every persevering prayer, every moment we’ve prioritized time with Him, every time we’ve spoken boldly for Him, every trial—will culminate in seeing His face (Rev. 22:4).

`What do you imagine you will be thinking and feeling when you first see the face of Jesus?`

`How does knowing we will see Jesus and be with Him in eternity reframe our current trials? See 2 Corinthians 4:16–18.`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Revelation 21 and 22. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._