---
title:  “Come!”
date:   24/06/2026
---

### inVite

God has never given up on inviting His people to come (Isa. 55:1–3; Matt. 11:28–30). The invitation is offered to us again today: “Come!” The Holy Spirit wants to draw you to Jesus today. Jesus invites you to come to Him, to abide in Him today, and every day, until He comes. “And the Spirit and the bride say, ‘Come!’ And let him who hears say, ‘Come!’ And let him who thirsts come. Whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely” (Rev. 22:17). Jesus offers the water of life to every thirsty soul. Do not delay in coming. Do not let anything keep you away. Make it the priority of your life to answer the call of Jesus and drink deeply of the water of life. Jesus turns nobody away who accepts His offer. Jesus promised that the one “who comes to Me I will by no means cast out” (John 6:37). All are welcome.

When you respond and come to Him, when your heart is soft and your mind surrendered, you will feel peace because you know that, even if you die, He will raise you up, no matter how unworthy you may feel, on the last day of this earth. When you come to Jesus and love Him with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, your life here and in the future is changed forever.

Everyone who responds to His invitation senses the urgency to work with the Holy Spirit to call others. The water of life is free, offered as a gift of grace. All those who taste it long for others to taste it as well.

Even as Jesus invites us to come to Him, the last words in the Bible promise this: “‘Surely I am coming quickly.’ Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus” (Rev. 22:20). How quickly? From our perspective, as soon as we close our eyes in death, the next thing we know will be the return of Christ. Considering how quickly our lives pass, that’s how quickly Jesus is coming back for us. Perhaps our first thought at the resurrection will be, “Wow, Lord, Your coming was soon after all!”

The relationship we experience with God now is but the beginning of the fuller, deeper relationship we will realize with Him in heaven—a relationship where we bear His name, see His face, and stand in the light of His presence forever (Rev. 21:3–5). Truly, now we see but faintly, as in a mirror. But then we’ll see Him face to face. Don’t grow weary of waiting. Always keep this desire alive, trusting in the love and goodness of God. Lord Jesus, please come!

**Questions to consider:**

`Pray right now for the faith to endure, for the faith to allow you to surrender wholly and completely to the One who died for you and is coming back quickly for you.`