---
title: inQuire
date: 27/06/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Heaven and the New Earth:**

1. What will make heaven and the new earth different from life now? Rev. 21:1–5
2. What’s the significance of heaven being represented in terms of a wedding? Rev. 19:7; 21:9–11
3. What stands out to you about John’s vision of the holy city, the New Jerusalem? Rev. 21:9–27

`Personal reflection: Who in your life needs to hear about the hope of heaven? Commit to sharing with them as soon as possible. Remember: you can’t share with them a hope that you yourself don’t personally have.`

**Together with God:**

1. What kind of close relationship will the saved enjoy with God forever? John 14:1–3; Rev. 22:4
2. If we are going to follow the Lamb in eternity (Rev. 7:17), what should we learn to do now? Rev. 14:4

`Personal reflection: How are you learning to listen to God and follow His lead? When has that been challenging, and what have you been learning?`

**Being ready:**

1. What is God’s loving invitation to us and to all in preparation for His coming? Rev. 22:17
2. How will people be rewarded when Jesus comes? Rev. 22:12–15
3. What should we always be ready for and eagerly wait for? Rev. 22:7, 12, 20

`Personal reflection: What aspect of this quarter’s lessons do you most want to remember in order to keep your relationship with God strong until you see Jesus face to face?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Though heaven is far beyond human language and imagination, God gives us glimpses of it and wants us to look forward to eternity with Him.
- Because of His great love for us, God desires to have a close relationship with us now and to spend eternity with us.
- God is preparing for a great wedding, and He wants us to be ready as well.