---
title:  God Is Good
date:  03/07/2022
---

#### inGest

In response to Moses’ request to see God’s face, God gave him a glimpse of His character, part of which was His being “abundant in goodness” (Exod. 34:6, KJV). This goodness of God is elsewhere presented as foundational to repentance (Rom. 2:4). David invites his readers to “taste and see that the Lord is good” (Ps. 34:8), and boldly describes God as “good and upright” (Ps. 25:8). Indeed, “the Lord is good” (Ps. 100:5). Case closed—or so it seems!

With such a compelling biblical witness to the goodness of God, why is this goodness so often questioned by finite beings, many of whom are self-proclaimed believers? Even the crucifixion (the greatest expression of God’s goodness) is sometimes offered as proof that God the Father is heartless! How can this unjust view be overthrown? The Sabbath commandment may contain the resolution to this dilemma.

In the Bible, God introduces Himself first as the Creator of heaven and earth, not as its Savior. This by no means dilutes the potency of Calvary, but it does establish a foundation of certainty regarding God’s goodness. No one berates God for creating flowers, birds, trees, air, water, sunlight, animals, fish, fruits, grass, stars, and so on. This flurry of divine activity is described as “very good” (Gen. 1:31). The very chronology of creation proclaims God’s goodness in the sense that everything necessary for happiness was provided before humanity appeared on the stage.

The Creator instituted the Sabbath as a weekly reminder (uninterrupted by secular concerns) of His goodness. Since God is unchanging and He entered Scripture as good, no subsequent act of His can alter His goodness. He does not change! This means that the good Creator must be the prism through which we see the Flood, or the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, or Calvary. A God who begins as good cannot end badly.

God was Creator eons before He was Savior; and He will continue as Creator long after He ceases to be Intercessor and Savior. Indeed, had there been no sin, there would have been no need of a Savior. But there has been and always will be the good Creator.

The one who faithfully observes the Sabbath commandment will be reminded weekly, in a very focused way, of the unchanging goodness of God. As surely as God is “our righteousness” (Jer. 23:6) and “our peace” (Eph. 2:14), so surely is He our goodness.

The Sabbath declares that God is good. The Sabbath-keeper believes it!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Exodus 20:8–11. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`How does your belief concerning God’s goodness impact your dayto-day life?`

`Aside from His goodness, what does the creation account reveal about God’s character?`