---
title:  Prerequisites
date:  04/07/2022
---

#### inTerpret

In the educational system of the United States, and probably in most countries, prerequisites are requirements for advancement to a major area of study. For the pursuit of a medical degree, a student is required to take biology, chemistry, anatomy, physiology, and other related science subjects. For engineering, one prerequisite is most surely mathematics. Success in these prerequisites presumably establishes a firm foundation for the expectation of success in a specialized field.

The completed degrees then function as prerequisites for employment in related professions. The one who desires to work as an auditor should have training in accounting. For some forms of employment, the requirements are not as much academic as they are moral. Is there a comprehensive prerequisite that covers every area of study and employment? For the follower of Christ, there is!

Of the many sweeping statements found in the Bible, one of the most wide-ranging is the claim that there is One “in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge” (Col. 2:3, KJV). This fount of all knowledge is the Creator. He made heaven and earth and thus put in place all the laws of the physical sciences (astronomy, chemistry, physics, earth sciences). The same applies to biological science, because God is the Creator of life. There is not an area of study related to heaven or earth that falls outside the scope of creation. All true knowledge centers in the Creator!

A sweeping prerequisite for any branch of legitimate learning is the concept that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge” (Prov. 1:7). As regards the application of knowledge, the Bible declares that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom” (Prov. 9:10). From God’s viewpoint, both the acquisition and application of knowledge should rest upon the acknowledgment of God as the source of both, because “all things” were created by Him (Col. 1:16).

The Sabbath commandment is a weekly reminder that God is the fountainhead of all knowledge (sin excepted) and that the true purpose of learning is to discover God. Ellen White wrote, “There is no branch of legitimate business for which the Bible does not afford an essential preparation. Its principles of diligence, honesty, thrift, temperance, and purity are the secret of true success.” (Ellen G. White, Education (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1903), 135.)

True worshipers of the Creator will pursue courses of study to know God first. The grade is a secondary goal! Ellen White writes, “In a knowledge of God all true knowledge and real development have their source. Wherever we turn, in the physical, the mental, or the spiritual realm; in whatever we behold, apart from the blight of sin, this knowledge is revealed.” (White, Education, 14.)

The one who endeavors to see everything from God’s point of view will see learning as a search for God, and employment as service to God. The commandment that elevates God as Creator and Lord is the finest prerequisite for life!

`What questions emerge after reading Exodus 20:8–11? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`If all true knowledge centers in the Creator, how do you reconcile the fact that there are people with advanced educational degrees who do not believe in God?`