---
title:  Hang in There
date:  06/07/2022
---

#### inVite

The Bible says, “And God said, Let there be light: and there was light” (Gen. 1:3, KJV). The passage pulses with immediacy. As soon as the word was spoken, the light came. The One who uttered those creative words was the One who said, “I will; be thou clean” (Matt. 8:3). Matthew records, “Immediately his leprosy was cleansed” (Matt. 8:3). A similar experience of instantaneous healing at the word of Jesus befell the man at the pool of Bethesda (John 5:9), as was the case with blind Bartimaeus (Mark 10:52). A similar instant effect seemed to have come upon the wind and the waves (Mark 4:39).

Creation was instantaneous at the word of God. Maintaining creation, however, is a long, drawn-out process accomplished by the same word. Peter writes, “By the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water. . . . But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store” (2 Pet. 3:5, 7, KJV,). Ellen White writes, “And God cares for everything and sustains everything that He has created.” (Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1892), 86.)

Creation and maintenance of creation are inseparable. If maintenance ceases, creation ceases. The word accomplishes both!

There is a most serious spiritual parallel. Paul writes, “As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him” (Col. 2:6, KJV,). “Received” is equal to “justification” (conversion) as “walk” is equal to “abide” (sanctification). Both are accomplished by the word. The Bible declares, “Being born again, [justification] not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever” (1 Pet. 1:23, KJV,). Ellen White offers this support, “The new birth is accomplished by the reception of the word of God.” (Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, April 30, 1896, par. 2.)

O that believers would meditate on these words: “God requires the entire surrender of the heart, before justification can take place; and in order for man to retain justification, there must be continual obedience, through active, living faith that works by love and purifies the soul.” (Ellen G. White, Faith and Works (Nashville: Southern Publishing, 1979), 100.)

None need miss the glaring elements of justification (spiritual creation) and continual obedience (sanctification or spiritual maintenance). If the powerful word that creates is the same powerful word that sustains, then a failure in maintenance is effectively an annulling of creation. May the reader who honors the Sabbath understand that as creation must be maintained, so must justification be maintained—by the creative word of faith!

` `