---
title: 'Moving Forward In Faith'
date: 19/09/2020
---

### Read for this week's lesson
Philippians 2:5–11; Matthew 4:18–20; Acts 9:3–6, 10–20; John 21:15–19.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “In your lives you must think and act like [the same as] Christ Jesus. Christ himself was like [the same as] God in everything. He was equal with God. But he did not think that being equal with God was something to be held on to. He gave up his place with God and made himself nothing. He was born as a man and became like [the same as] a servant” (Philippians 2:5–7, ICB).

JESUS LEFT EVERYTHING to come to this earth. He left behind heaven, the angels, and His face-to-face friendship with God the Father. Jesus came to this evil planet to show us God’s love. He came to win back the hearts of humans and to save sinners from death. “We cannot ever understand how much it cost God to save us until we stand with our Savior in front of God’s throne. Then we will see heaven’s glory. We shall remember that Jesus left all this for us. Jesus left heaven. But He did more than that for us. He accepted the risk that He may fail and lose everything. When we understand this, we will throw our crowns at His feet. We will sing the song, ‘ “The Lamb, who was put to death, is worthy! He is worthy to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength! He is worthy to receive honor and glory and praise!” ’ Revelation 5:12 [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 131, adapted.

When we work with Jesus to save sinners, we must give up things too. We must move forward in faith and obedience.
