---
title:  JESUS GAVE AT A BIG COST TO HIMSELF
date:   20/09/2020
---

Paul encourages us to let the mind, or thoughts, of Jesus live in us. This leads us to some interesting questions. What was the mind of Jesus? What controlled His thinking? What did He think about?

`Read Philippians 2:5–11. How do these verses show what Jesus’ thoughts were all about? What important rule controlled His whole life?`

From the start, Jesus was equal with God. Paul announces this everlasting truth in these words: “Christ [Jesus] himself was like [the same as] God in everything. He was equal with God. But he did not think that being equal with God was something to be held on to” (Philippians 2:6, ICB). The word written as “like” comes from the Greek word “morphê.” “Morphê” means “what something is made of.” It shows us that two things are equal in worth: the Father and the Son. The SDA Bible Commentary says: “Jesus is equal with the Father. He is above every other power. Paul tells us this to show us that Jesus came down very low when He became a human.”—Volume 7, page 154, adapted. Ellen G. White adds, “In Jesus is life. This life does not come from anything else. It was not made. It is not borrowed from anything.”—The Desire of Ages, page 530, adapted.

Jesus was equal to God from the start. “But he gave up his place with God and made himself nothing” (Philippians 2:7, NCV). This wording “made himself nothing,” has an interesting meaning in the Greek. These words can be written as “to empty.” So, Jesus freely chose to “empty Himself” of His honor and glory as God’s equal. Then He chose to become born as a man and live in a human body. He became a servant to humans. He showed heaven’s law of love to everyone in heaven. Then He showed the biggest act of love: He died on the cross for our sins. He gave His life to save ours forever.

Jesus’ thoughts were filled with love. His love made Him give up His life. We follow Jesus when we love as He loved. We also must serve as He served. We must work as He worked. We must let the Holy Spirit empty us of selfish wishes and plans. To do this will cost us something. It cost Jesus everything. But that is why the Bible says, “God raised [honored] Christ to the highest [most important] place. God made the name of Christ greater [gave it more honor and glory] than every other name” (Philippians 2:9, ICB).
