---
title: 'Jesus’ Invitation'
date: 21/09/2020
---

Make this picture in your mind: Peter and Andrew are in their boats. It is a beautiful morning in Galilee. The sun takes the chill from the air. Peter and Andrew think about catching fish. A lot of fish. The fishing has been good these days. So, Peter and Andrew hope they will have another good day. Then in the early morning light, Peter and Andrew see someone walking to them. It is Jesus of Nazareth. They have no idea that soon their lives will change forever.

`Read Matthew 4:18–22. How do these verses show us that Jesus wants Peter and Andrew to do more than catch fish? Why do you think Peter and Andrew decide to follow Jesus?`

John in his Gospel tells us that he and Peter already knew Jesus for more than a year. But John and Peter have not given their lives fully to Jesus. There must be something in Jesus’ words, face, or actions that shows Peter and John that Jesus invites them to serve God. Peter and John leave their boats, jobs, and everything they know to follow Jesus. Why? Jesus invites them to do something more with their lives. Peter and John are ordinary fishermen. But they understand that Jesus asks them to do something very special. Maybe God is not asking you to leave your job today. But He wants you to do something special for Him. He wants you to share His love. He also wants you to tell people about His truth and bring glory to His name.

`Look at Jesus’ invitation to Matthew, the tax collector, in Matthew 9:9. Why is this so surprising?`

Tax collectors in the kingdom of Rome often took money from other people by force. So, tax collectors were hated in Israel. But Jesus invites this tax collector to follow Him. Jesus’ invitation shows us that Matthew heard about Jesus and wished to follow Him with all his heart. When Jesus invites Matthew, Matthew is ready. Matthew is surprised that Jesus wants him to be one of His followers.

Deep in our hearts, we want more in life too. We want to live for something bigger than ourselves. That is why Jesus asks us to follow Him the same as Matthew.

`Think about what people have to give up to follow Jesus. Why, in the end, will it always be worth it?`
