---
title:  "PAUL: GOD’S CHOSEN LEADER"
date:   22/09/2020
---

When Paul accepts Jesus, Paul’s whole life changes in every way. Jesus gives Paul a whole new future. Jesus also leads Paul into experiences that he never dreamed were possible. The Holy Spirit guides Paul and helps him to preach Bible truth to thousands of people living around the Mediterranean Sea. Paul’s message changes the history of Christianity and the rest of human history too.

`Read Acts 9:3–6, 10–20. How do these verses show us that Jesus has a plan for Paul’s life?`

Jesus often chooses people that we do not expect. Think about the two men filled with demons. Or the Samaritan woman at the well. Mary Magdalene. A tax collector. Fishermen. And now Paul, the man who attacks Christians! All these men and women are changed by God’s mercy and love. Then Jesus sends them out to serve Him with joy in their hearts. They tell the story of everything that Jesus did in their lives. They never get tired of telling the story. What Jesus did for them is so wonderful that they must share it. They cannot stay silent.

`Compare Acts 28:28–31 and 2 Timothy 4:5–8. What do we see in these verses that shows us that Paul gives his whole life to serve Jesus?`

At the end of his life, Paul says, “ ‘God has sent his salvation [the Good News that Jesus saves sinners from the punishment of sin] to the non-Jewish people. They will listen [hear]!’ ” (Acts 28:28, ERV). The book of Acts says that Paul meets with anyone who visits him. Paul preaches the Good News to them (Acts 28:30, 31). At the end of his life, Paul tells Timothy to do the work of a preacher. Paul says about himself, “I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith” (2 Timothy 4:7, ICB).

Maybe our experience is not as exciting as Paul’s. God invites us to work with Him anyway. Paul has many hard times in life (2 Corinthians 11:25–30). But Paul stays loyal to God. Paul’s story is powerful. It shows what God can do with someone who gives his life fully to God.

`What has God asked you to do? Are you doing it?`
