---
title: 'What Love Asks Of Us'
date: 23/09/2020
---

Love always shows itself in what we do. Our love for Jesus causes us to do something for people who are lost. Paul tells the same thing to the church at Corinth: “the love of Christ puts us into action” (2 Corinthians 5:14, NLV). Christianity is not only about giving up bad things so that we can be saved. Jesus did not “give up” bad things in heaven so that He could be saved. He gave up good things so that He could save other people. Jesus does not invite us to give only our time, talents, and treasures to His cause. Jesus also invites us to give Him our lives.

One morning, Jesus met with His followers on the beach in front of the Sea of Galilee. There, Jesus told His followers all about love and what love asks of us.

`Read John 21:15–19. As we see from these verses, what question does Jesus ask Peter three times? What is Peter’s answer? Why does Jesus ask Peter this question three times?`

Peter rejected Jesus by his words three times. So, Jesus asks Peter for an answer of love from Peter’s own lips three times. Jesus does this in front of His followers to rebuild their trust in Peter and Peter’s trust in Him. Jesus wants Peter to believe that God forgives him. Also, Jesus wants Peter to see that God has work for him to do.

`Read John 21:15–19 again. This time pay special attention to Jesus’ answer to Peter’s love for Jesus. What does Jesus tell Peter to do?`

God’s love always takes action. Real love is more than a warm feeling and a nice idea. Real love is about giving yourself fully to someone. Love causes us to act. Love causes us to help people in need. Jesus says to Peter, “ ‘Take care of my lambs,’ ” (John 21:15, ERV). This is both a command and words of comfort. Jesus asks Peter to answer His love. Jesus also encourages Peter to believe that God wants him to continue to work for Him, even after Peter turned away from Jesus. Peter behaved as if he did not know Jesus. Worse, Jesus told Peter it would happen.

Why are we talking about this topic? Because you may have failed your Lord many times the same as Peter. The good news is that God forgives you. He is not done with you. He has work for you to do if you are willing to do it.
