---
title:  LOVE’S PROMISE
date:   24/09/2020
---

Jesus and Peter finish their conversation. They walk along the beach. As the waves come to shore, Jesus tells Peter how much it costs to be His follower. Jesus wants Peter to understand fully what he will experience if he accepts Jesus’ invitation to “ ‘Take care of my lambs,’ ” (John 21:15, ERV).

`Read John 21:18, 19. What does Jesus tell Peter about how much it costs to follow Him? Why do you think Jesus shows something so surprising to Peter at this time?`

In John 21:18, 19, Jesus tells Peter how he will die. Peter’s hands will be stretched on a cross. Why does Jesus tell Peter about his death before it happens? Jesus wants to give Peter a choice. Jesus offers Peter life’s biggest joy: seeing people saved for God’s kingdom. On the day of Pentecost, Peter will see thousands of people accept Jesus. Pentecost is the time when God pours His Spirit on His church after Jesus goes back to heaven. Peter will do miracles in Jesus’ name. Peter also will give glory to God in front of many more thousands of people. Peter will have the everlasting joy of working with Jesus. But that reward will come with a price. Peter must give up his life. Jesus does not hide this truth from Peter. Peter now knows that he will give up anything that Jesus asks him to give.

`Read 1 John 3:16–18. What does John say that real love is? How do we show that our love is real?`

In heaven, we will feel that we did not do enough for Jesus. Jesus will give us far more in heaven than we ever gave Him in this life. That is why we should be happy to show our love for Jesus by our words and actions. We show God we love Him when we do not hold anything back from Him. God’s love also helps us to share Bible truth with people and show them Jesus. Then we live out God’s plan for our lives. Jesus says, “ ‘Now you know these things. So you will be blessed if you do them’ ” (John 13:17, NIrV). Share God’s truth and His love. Live your life for Him. When you give God glory, you will know real joy and lasting happiness.

`Make a picture in your mind of everlasting life with Jesus. How does that picture look? Share it with the class.`
