---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   25/09/2020
---

“The leaders in charge of the church should find ways to include every church member in some part of God’s work. This has not been done enough in the past. The talents of everyone in the church should be used to serve God. Plans should be made and followed to do that. Very few people understand how much we as a church have lost because we have not followed this advice.

“The leaders in God’s cause must be wise as generals. They must make plans to move forward. They must study the work that can be done by church members for their friends and neighbors. God’s work on this earth cannot be finished until church members do the work that needs to be done. They must join with the pastors and church leaders.

“The work to save people includes personal work that we all must do. We must share with other people Bible truth. We must not wait for people to come to us. I wish I could find the right words to say to men and women to wake them up and cause them to work! We do not have much time left. We are standing on the border to everlasting life. We have no time to waste. Every second is important. Time is too precious to use it to please ourselves. Who will seek God? Who will get strength and power from God to be His loyal workers on this earth?

“In every church there are skills. These skills may be developed to become a wonderful help in God’s work. That will happen when our people use these skills in the right jobs. What we now need the most to build up our churches are workers who understand the talents that are in the church. These talents must be developed. We must educate ourselves to use our talents for God.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, pages 116, 117, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What is the most important idea in the Ellen G. White quote above? How can developing our gifts and talents change the way we share Jesus with people? How can it make your church’s message about Jesus to other people stronger too?`

`2. How is real love always shown? What are some examples of love that are not real?`

`3. Talk about the things that people give up for the Lord. What about people who lost their lives for their faith? What can you learn from these stories?`
