---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/12/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Reformation,” pp. 669–678, in Prophets and Kings.

“Industry in a God-appointed duty is an important part of true religion. Men should seize circumstances as God’s instruments with which to work His will. Prompt and decisive action at the right time will gain glorious triumphs, while delay and neglect result in failure and dishonor to God. If the leaders in the cause of truth show no zeal, if they are indifferent and purposeless, the church will be careless, indolent, and pleasure-loving; but if they are filled with a holy purpose to serve God and Him alone, the people will be united, hopeful, eager. “The word of God abounds in sharp and striking contrasts. Sin and holiness are placed side by side, that, beholding, we may shun the one and accept the other. The pages that describe the hatred, falsehood, and treachery of Sanballat and Tobiah, describe also the nobility, devotion, and self-sacrifice of Ezra and Nehemiah. We are left free to copy either, as we choose. The fearful results of transgressing God’s commands are placed over against the blessings resulting from obedience. We ourselves must decide whether we will suffer the one or enjoy the other.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 676.

**Discussion Questions:**

`As we read these stories, it seems clear that many of the people weren’t dedicated to God in the first place, which is why they chose pagan wives. Thus, Ezra doesn’t just leave them to their own devices, but attempts to reprove and correct them in hopes of achieving change. Did the change truly occur though? By changing their behavior, did they change within? Did their devotion to God truly grow? What evidence do we have that many of them didn’t really change? What can we learn from their mistakes about how important a change of heart really is?`

`What are ways that we can help those in our church who might be struggling with the problems that come from unwise marriages?`

`Though God’s principles are eternal and absolute, cultures vary greatly. Why must we keep these differences in mind as we seek to apply God’s principles to our own lives and situations?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Prophets and Kings_, “Reformation,” pp. 669–678;

_Sons and Daughters of God_, “We Are Made Pillars in the Temple of God,” p. 370.