---
title:  Praying for People Who Reject God
date:   06/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 32:1–6; Romans 1:22–27; Exodus 32:7, 8; Exodus 32:9–29; Exodus 32:30–32.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “So Moses went back to the Lordord and said, ‘Please listen! These people committed [did] a terrible sin and made a god from gold. Now, forgive them of this sin. If you will not forgive them, then erase my name from your book’ ” (Exodus 32:31, 32, ERV).

Moses was in the mountain with God for only 40 days, and what happened? God’s people turned away from Him and worshiped a man-made statue of a god, the gold cow. After God gave His people so many mighty signs, experiences, and miracles, how could they do that?

Did the people not understand who God really was? Or did their love for sin cause them to forget their powerful experiences with God? Weren’t the Israelites grateful for everything God did for them? Or did they not really care? Did they not fully understand what God did for them? Were their minds ruined with their sins and the old way of thinking from the past? Were they not grateful for God’s gift of mercy? Did they so quickly forget the mighty acts of God (Psalm 106:13, 21–23)? Or should we blame their worship of the gold cow on Aaron’s failed leadership? Moses tells us that the Lord “ ‘was so angry with Aaron he wanted to destroy him too’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:20, NIrV).

Whatever Israel’s reasons for sinning against God and turning from Him, what lessons about sin and God’s mercy can we learn from their experience?