---
title:  Failed Leadership
date:   07/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God invited Moses to spend time with Him. 40 days and 40 nights may have seemed a short period of time for Moses. But 40 days and 40 nights was too long for the Israelites. Their visible leader, Moses, was gone too long. The people became confused and refused to wait for Moses. They felt afraid and insecure. The people wanted a visible god who would lead them, much the same as the “gods” they saw all their lives in Egypt.

`Read Exodus 32:1–6. How was it possible for Aaron’s leadership to fail in a big spectacular way?`

Aaron failed to do what was right. Aaron didn’t trust the Lord. He did what the people wanted. The people asked for something forbidden and terrible: “ ‘Come. Make us a god that will lead us’ ” (Exodus 32:1, NIrV).

People gave gold to make the statue. Aaron didn’t stop them from giving. Worse, Aaron invited them to give! Then Aaron helped to make the false god. After Aaron made the gold calf, they announced, “ ‘Israel, here is your god who brought you up out of Egypt’ ” (Exodus 32:4, NIrV). The people were evil, filled with sin, and short-sighted. They made this statue and then announced that this “god” saved them from the Egyptians. Isn’t it strange how sin can change our thinking and actions for the worse? People celebrate and worship the things they make. When they do, their hearts and minds become ruined.

“The people of Israel needed a strong leader during this time. This leader needed to put the honor of God above popular favor, personal safety, or his own life. But Aaron was not a strong leader. Aaron tried to stop the people, but He was afraid of them. Aaron was weak when he needed to be strong at an important time. Aaron’s weakness caused the people to want to make the gold calf even more. The noise and trouble grew worse. The crowd grew excited. Even so, some Israelites stayed loyal and true to God’s Promise. But most of the people joined in the sin. Aaron was afraid for his own safety. But he didn’t stand up for God’s honor. He gave the people what they wanted.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 316, 317, adapted.

`Why was Aaron, a leader, so weak? What excuse do you think Aaron gave in his own heart for his actions?`