---
title:  Evil And Worshiping False Gods
date:   08/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Where did the worship of false gods quickly lead the Israelites? Read Exodus 32:6 for the answer.`

The gold cow looked much the same as the Egyptian bull-god named Apis or the Egyptian cow-god named Hathor. When Israel made the gold cow, they broke the first and second commandments. God must punish this sin because the people openly broke their relationship with the living Lord. The Israelites worshiped something they made and not the God who made them. Their god could not see, hear, smell, speak, care, love, or lead.

God made people to be copies of Himself. But now the people made a god that looked the same as an animal. Why did they want to serve this animal as a god? So, the people sinned deeply against the Lord (Isaiah 31:7; Isaiah 42:17).

`In what ways does the sin with the gold cow show us what is written in Romans 1:22–27?`

When people worship false gods, they reject the Bible truth that God is God and man is man. Worshiping false gods breaks the connection between God and man and separates us from Him. Some people bow down in front of statues. Other people worship false gods in their hearts. All types of this worship will break our relationship with the Lord and lower us into sin. No wonder the verse talks about what the people did the next day. First, they killed animals and offered them as gifts to the statue of the gold cow. Then the people started to party and have a good time. Ellen G. White says that the party was “much the same as the feasts in Egypt that people celebrated in honor of false gods.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 320, adapted.

People are very good at making their own false gods. Worse, after they make their own gods, they bow down and serve them. These people replace the Savior who made them with things that, sooner or later, destroy them.

`What are ways, today, that people worship nature and the things that God made, and not God?`