---
title:  A Terrible Sin
date:   09/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why did God send Moses back to the camp of Israel? Read Exodus 32:7, 8 for the answer.`

The Israelites worshiped a false god. When they did, they started to “divorce” God. “And the Lord said to Moses, ‘Go down from this mountain. Your people, the people you brought out of the land of Egypt, have done a terrible sin’ ” (Exodus 32:7, ICB). The people made their sin worse when they thanked their “god” for helping them escape Egypt. The people went against what God said to them (read Exodus 20:2)! The people rejected God and His mighty acts. The Israelites’ hearts and minds were completely ruined.

For Ezekiel, the worship of false gods caused God’s people to suffer and to do other sins (read Ezekiel 8:1–18; Ezekiel 20:1–44; Ezekiel 22:1–12). We may wonder, how could God’s people be so foolish? Why did they refuse to stop worshiping false gods? We are sure that we would not do the same thing. Are we really free of false gods? Today, false gods may look different. But they have the same power over us that false gods had over God’s people in Bible times.

A false god replaces God. We know that worshiping the false god isn’t right. But we worship it anyway. The false god steals our time, our thoughts and imagination, our hearts, and our feelings away from God. We spend more time with the god than we do with God. The false god can make us slaves. We become what we look at and watch. So, we will become no better than whatever “god” we serve.

If God isn’t the most important part of our lives, then other gods will replace Him. If we don’t enjoy being with God and communicating with Him, we will enjoy and give our lives to something or someone else. What we substitute for Jesus may look different for each of us: pride, a selfish heart, money, power, sex, food, TV, a bad drug habit, alcohol, dirty thoughts, pleasures, work, sports, family, video games, shopping, sex tapes, films and movies, ideas, government, fame, good grades, and so on. We can even turn anything good and beautiful into a false god. Worshiping false gods puts us in terrible danger because false gods change our personality, our thinking, our feelings, and our choice of friends. False gods change who we are. False gods destroy our real, personal relationships and replace them with empty friendships that, in the end, can’t save us.