---
title:  God’s Holy Anger
date:   10/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What did Moses say and do when God wanted to destroy Israel? Read Exodus 32:9–29 for the answer.`

While Moses was on Sinai, God said that He would destroy the people who turned against Him. Then God would make Moses’ future children into a powerful people group. But Moses didn’t want God to do that. Moses asked the Lord to remember that the Israelites weren’t his people, but God’s. Moses didn’t bring the people out of Egypt. God brought them out with His mighty works. So, Moses asked God to remember His early promises to their fathers. Moses was working as a real helper. He asked God to forgive His people. Moses stood between God’s anger and the people.

“Then the Lordord took pity on his people. He didn’t destroy them as he had said he would” (Exodus 32:14, NIrV). After that, Moses went back to the camp.

When Moses came near the camp, he saw the gold cow. Moses saw the people dancing. He became very angry, and he threw the two pieces of stone on the ground. The stones broke into several pieces at the bottom of the mountain (Exodus 32:19). God wrote His law on the two pieces of stone. The broken pieces of stone were a symbol that showed that Israel broke God’s law. God scolded Moses for breaking the stone. Later, God commanded Moses to cut two more pieces of stone to replace the broken stones: “ ‘I will write on the tablets the same words that were on the first tablets, which you broke’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:2, ICB).

Moses angrily scolded Aaron for doing what the people wanted. “Moses said to Aaron, ‘What did these people do to you that would make you do this [make a gold cow]? Why did you lead them to do such [the same as this] a terrible sin?’ ” (Exodus 32:21, ERV). What made things worse was that God honored Aaron so much in the past. Aaron went on the mountain with Moses and the 70 leaders (Exodus 24:1).

Aaron said that a miracle caused the gold cow to appear in the fire and then jump out of the flames. Aaron tried to use this story to trick his brother. (Do you see how one sin leads to another? In this example, worshiping false gods leads to lying.) Moses wasn’t fooled. He saw that the people behaved wildly. Moses could see the evil behavior that happened when the people worshiped the gold cow. So, Moses knew that he needed to stop their sinning right away.