---
title:  No More Tears Or Pain
date:   11/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How far did Moses go in his prayer for sinners? Read Exodus 32:30–32 for the answer.`

Because Israel worshiped the gold cow, terrible things happened in their camp. Many people died (Exodus 32:28). “The next day Moses said to the people, ‘You have committed [done] a terrible sin. But now I will go up to the Lordord. Maybe if I pray to him, he will forgive your sin’ ” (Exodus 32:30, NIrV). “So Moses went back to the Lordord and said, ‘Please listen! These people committed a terrible sin and made a god from gold. Now, forgive them of [for] this sin. If you will not forgive them, then erase my name from your book’ ” (Exodus 32:31, 32, ERV).

Moses is a symbol for Jesus. Moses prays for sinners and is willing to die for them. These things show us what Jesus would do for all of us. Moses felt so much love in his heart for sinners. Moses showed his loyalty to the Lord and His love for people. The book of Exodus doesn’t say how long Moses stayed with the Lord on the mountain this time. But the book of Deuteronomy tells us that Moses was on Sinai this time for 40 days (read Deuteronomy 9:18).

In Exodus 32:32, the word written as “forgive” is from a word in the Hebrew language whose basic meaning is “to take on” or “to carry.” We see an example of this meaning in Isaiah 53:4, which talks about Jesus: “For sure He took on Himself our troubles and carried our sorrows” (NLV). This same word is translated as “forgive” in Exodus 32:32 and “to take on” in Isaiah 53:4. This meaning helps us understand forgiveness and what it cost God to save us.

Moses asked the Lord to “carry” the people’s sin. That is exactly what Jesus did at the cross, thousands of years later. Exodus 32:32 shows not only the idea of a Substitute accepting the punishment for our sin. The verse also shows that the Substitute is God Himself.

Exodus 32:32 shows us how we get forgiveness. God in Jesus carried our sins. That’s the only way He could forgive us. This Bible truth is a powerful picture of God’s plan to save us and shows us how much it cost God to do it.

`Moses asks God Himself to carry His people’s sins. Jesus did just that. How do we understand this powerful Bible truth? What does it tell us about God’s love?`