---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   12/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pages 315–327, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

This week’s lesson is about God’s work in Christians. “With God’s power working in us, he can do much, much more than anything we can ask or think of” (Ephesian 3:20, ERV). We should not live for ourselves or do what we want, because that causes us to worship self and not God. Our attention should be on God and His power. He gives us His strength, which leads us to a new life. The Lord gives us power over sin (Philippians 4:13; Jude 1:24, 25).

“Because God is fair, He must punish evil. But God must punish evil because He is a loving God, too. God is not just the Leader of His people. He also protects them. God punishes sinners who refuse to stop fighting against Him so that they don’t destroy the lives of other people, too. When God spared Cain’s life and let him live, God showed to everyone in heaven what would happen if sin didn’t get punished. Cain’s life and teachings caused his future children to become so evil that the only way God could save the earth was to destroy it with a worldwide Flood. . . . The longer men lived, the more evil they became. The same thing happened at Sinai. If God didn’t punish the sinners fast, the same thing that happened with the people who lived before the Flood would have happened with the Israelites.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 325, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think more about the question at the end of Monday’s study. What are ways that we can worship nature and not the God who made nature? How can we be good managers of this earth and protect nature without worshiping it or making it a false god?`

`Why did Moses order the killing of the people who refused to be sorry for their sin and continued to fight against God and His teaching?`

`Read 1 Peter 2:24. How does this verse show the powerful idea that Jesus is our Substitute? Why must we have a Substitute to save us from our sins? Why is any teaching about how we are saved from sin wrong if it doesn’t teach this idea of a Substitute?`