---
title:  The Covenant With Moses
date:  07/04/2020
---

**Read Exodus 6:1–8 and then answer these questions**:

`1. What covenant was He talking about? See Gen. 12:1–3.`

`2. How was the Exodus to be a fulfillment, on His part, of the covenant promises?`

`3. What parallel can you find between what God promised the people here and what He promised Noah before the Flood?`

After the Exodus, the children of Israel received the covenant at Sinai, given in the context of redemption from bondage (Exod. 20:2) and containing God’s sacrificial provisions for atonement and the forgiveness of sin. It was, therefore, like all of them, a covenant of grace, God’s grace extended to His people.

This covenant reiterated, in many ways, the major emphases in the covenant with Abraham:

1. Special relationship of God to His people (compare Gen. 17:7, 8 with Exod. 19:5, 6).

2. They would be a great nation (compare Gen. 12:2 with Exod. 19:6).

3. Obedience was required (compare Gen. 17:9–14; Gen. 22:16–18 with Exod. 19:5).

“Note the order here: the Lord first saves Israel, then gives them His law to keep. The same order is true under the gospel. Christ first saves us from sin (see John 1:29; 1 Cor. 15:3; Gal. 1:4), then lives out His law within us (Gal. 2:20; Rom. 4:25; 8:1–3; 1 Peter 2:24).”–The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, p. 602.

`Read Exodus 6:7. What is the one thing that comes through in the first part, where the Lord says they will be His people and He their God? Notice the dynamics there. They will be something to God, and God will be something to them. Not only does God want to relate to them in a special way; He wants them to relate to Him in a special way, as well. Does the Lord not seek the same kind of relationship with us today? Does that first part of Exodus 6:7 reflect your relationship with the Lord, or are you just someone whose name is just on the church books? If your answer to the first part of the question is Yes, give reasons why.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Some [of the Israelites] were careful to instruct their children in the law of God, but many . . . had witnessed so much idolatry that they had confused ideas of God’s law. Those who feared God cried to Him in anguish of spirit to break their yoke of grievous bondage and bring them from the land of their captivity, that they might be free to serve Him. God heard their cries and raised up Moses as His instrument to accomplish the deliverance of His people.—_The Story of Redemption_, p. 147.

Not alone at the Saviour’s advent, but through all the ages after the Fall and the promise of redemption, “God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto Himself.” 2 Corinthians 5:19. Christ was the foundation and center of the sacrificial system in both the patriarchal and the Jewish age. . . . It was the Son of God that gave to our first parents the promise of redemption. It was He who revealed Himself to the patriarchs. Adam, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Moses understood the gospel. They looked for salvation through man’s Substitute and Surety. These holy men of old held communion with the Saviour who was to come to our world in human flesh; and some of them talked with Christ and heavenly angels face to face.

Christ was not only the leader of the Hebrews in the wilderness—the Angel in whom was the name of Jehovah, and who, veiled in the cloudy pillar, went before the host—but it was He who gave the law to Israel. Amid the awful glory of Sinai, Christ declared in the hearing of all the people the ten precepts of His Father’s law. It was He who gave to Moses the law engraved upon the tables of stone.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, p. 366.

Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine. Exodus 19:5.

This pledge was given not only to Israel but to all who are obedient to God’s Word. . . . God is faithful, by whom we are called to fellowship with His Son. As men and women cooperate with God in doing the work He has given them, they go forward from strength to greater strength. As they exercise simple faith, believing day by day that God will not fail to establish them in Christ, God says to them as He did to ancient Israel: “Thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God: the Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, above all people that are upon the face of the earth.” Deuteronomy 7:6.

Thus God is able and willing to lead all who will be led. He desires to teach each one a lesson of constant trust, unwavering faith, and unquestioning submission. He says to each one, I am the Lord thy God. Walk with Me, and I will fill thy path with light.—_Our High Calling_, p. 24.