---
title:  The Cosmic Controversy
date:   31/03/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ” (Rev. 12:17, NKJV).

**Introduction**: Heb. 12:2

**Neither Anxiety nor Self-Absorption**

“Honestly, I don’t think I could survive the end times.” Sam leaned against the door of our room, and it clicked shut. “I don’t want to live through it. I hope God lets me die before it happens.” It was a Friday night, and Sam and I were sophomores in academy. We had just gotten back to our dorm room from a Revelation seminar. I began to laugh when she said that but stopped when I saw the look on her face.

“Oh,” I said. I sat down on my bed. “Sam, I think you could. You would be OK.”

“No,” she said, opening her dresser drawer and taking out her pajamas. “Really, really, really. No. I don’t want to think about it anymore.”

To me, hearing pastors preach on last day events was always a little exciting. I imagined it like a dystopian movie where I’m the heroine— living off the land, making my own clothes, starting a fire with flint and steel. My hair is tangled, my eyebrows look like woolly bear caterpillars, and there’s dirt on my face; but set against the harsh landscape, I’m beautiful.

But that’s not how Sam seemed to think about it. Maybe she imagined the end times more like an old black-and-white horror film—the dark, the shadows, the evil that could harm her family, the scary music that gets louder right before something bad happens.

I don’t know exactly how Sam thought about it, but I know that neither of our approaches—her anxiety and my rose-colored glasses—were especially helpful. “ ‘Do not worry about tomorrow,’ ” Jesus says in Matthew 6:34 (NIV). And, while Jesus doesn’t specifically admonish us against daydreaming about starring in an Adventist version of an apocalyptic film, Hebrews 12:2 encourages us to “fix our eyes on Jesus” (CEB).

And that’s what our goal is as we study the Bible’s description of the end times: to fix our eyes on Jesus and keep Him at the center of our faith. Doing so will allow us to dig into the Scripture texts for this week without being motivated by anxiety or self-absorption. Let’s keep our eyes on Jesus, the beautiful, bold embodiment of the love of God, as we read the Bible’s story about the origin of sin and the cosmic controversy. And especially for those of us who feel as Sam did, let’s remember Jesus’ promise in Matthew 28:20, “ ‘Surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age’ ” (NIV).

_Sarah Ventura, Winona, Minnesota, USA_