---
title:  The Start of a Great Debate
date:   01/04/2018
---

**Logos**: Genesis 1–3; Ezek. 28:12–14; Isa. 14:12–14; Rev. 12:1–7

**God’s Plan for This World** (Genesis 1; 2; Deut. 1:8; 1 John 4:19)

God has existed since the beginning of time and therefore calls Himself “the Alpha and the Omega” (Rev. 1:8, NKJV). Alpha is the first letter in the Greek alphabet, and omega is the last letter. So the sense of this verse is that He is the A and the Z.

In other words, God has existed forever and will continue to do so: as God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit (cf. Deut. 6:4). And because “He first loved us” (1 John 4:19, NKJV), He created us, with the risk of possible failure on our part. Like a parent decorating and babyproofing their home in anticipation of a newborn, God made the earth a habitable planet with animals and vegetation. Once finished, He blessed all He had done and gave Adam, Eve, and their descendants ownership of the world. God wanted Adam and Eve to rejoice in His love and to enjoy His gifts. He wanted them to enjoy their freedom (Genesis 1; 2).

**The Mysterious Beginning of Evil in Heaven** (Ezek. 28:12–14; Isa. 14:12–14)

The Bible also states that God created many angels, among whom Lucifer had a high position. He was created as a perfect being. Ezekiel 28:14 mentions that he lived “upon the holy mountain of God” as a cherub.

Lucifer was blessed, being a cherub, with a direct access to God that not many angels had. His splendor was so great that he is described as “son of the morning” (Isa. 14:12). He was clothed in a robe that contained several precious stones, which reflected the importance and sacredness of his position (Ezek. 28:13b). As an angel he also gave glory to God, but even in this he was unique, having his own created instruments (Ezek. 28:13c). Lucifer was so close to God that it is a mystery that conceit made its way into his heart. And like a disease, it spread throughout his whole heart until he no longer loved God but only himself. In effect, he no longer understood or accepted that all glory belongs to God but wanted to be God himself (Isa. 14:12–14). He did not desire to have God’s character, only His glory.

**God’s Loving Justice** (Rev. 12:1–7)

On a human level, disagreements are typically settled through either retaliation or removal, by death, for instance. So you would expect God to immediately punish Satan for such treason or take his life. Yet while most earthly leaders would immediately think of these two “solutions,” God made a different decision. He let Satan live on earth even after he had led a cosmic rebellion (Rev. 12:1–7). By letting Lucifer allow mistrust into his heart, God had let Lucifer make his own choice. Lucifer was no longer in spiritual and physical unison with God and with those who loved Him, so he could no longer stay in heaven. Nor would Lucifer want to continue being under God’s reign anyway. Once more God showed His loving justice and proved Lucifer’s accusations wrong.

**The Controversy Comes to Earth** (John 12:31; 8:44; Gen. 2:17; 3)

Lucifer is described as the “prince of this world” several times in the Bible (John 12:31; 14:30; 16:11). He obtained this title by securing rulership over the first inhabitants of this world, Adam and Eve. His reign in this world includes murder and lies (John 8:44). Satan used these tactics to subject our first ancestors to his self-proclaimed authority.

The holy couple was warned by God Himself about the dangers of eating the fruit of the tree in the center of the garden. Eve thought she could enjoy the beauty of the tree and its talking creature and still not fall captive to the deception of the serpent. Instead of abandoning the tree once she was reminded it was forbidden, she tried to reason with Satan.

Just as in the Garden of Eden, Satan still uses the same tactics to lead us to mistrust God and break His commandments. Much like the “tree of knowledge of good and evil,” there are many seemingly beautiful things and activities that we may come across which we are asked, and at times even pressured, to try. We all pass through these experiences and battle them daily. But it is up to us, like it was up to Eve, to decide whether we surround ourselves with these “trees” and let ourselves be sweet-talked into “eating their fruit.”

Since the Fall, God’s character has been mistrusted and, hence, put under thorough scrutiny by humankind. Thus, from Eden, the great controversy that started in heaven was brought to this world. The controversy is about who is right: Is God trustworthy and does He really love us? Or is Satan correct in accusing God of selfishness and carelessness? There is enmity between those who will believe the serpent and those who will believe in God (Gen. 3:15). Which side are you choosing today?

**React**

`1. What would your petition to God be, so that you are not deceived?`

`2. How do you see God’s loving justice each day?`

`3. What can you do so that sin does not grow in your heart?`

_Saly Mamani, Union City, California, USA_