---
title:  Anxiety in the Airport
date:   02/04/2018
---

**Testimony**: John 16:33

While waiting for my flight, I introduced myself to a woman who seemed lonely. The conversation quickly turned to the election of the president of the United States only moments earlier. The woman’s countenance betrayed her fear and trepidation over what the election might bring. In fact, the emotional response on that concourse was surreal . . . yet I felt unshaken.

I understand why there were so many emotions. Our world seems to be so on edge, that either way the election went, the responses would have been intense. It brings to mind a quote, “The nations are in unrest. Times of perplexity are upon us. Men’s hearts are failing them for fear of the things that are coming upon the earth.”1

In the past thirty years we’ve seen the end of the Soviet Union, multiple conflicts in the Middle East, 9/11, random bombings, and cultural shifts on numerous subjects. Any non-Christian should be scared. This world is twisted, empty, and unsteady, and, sadly, thousands don’t understand why.

The problem is that “God cannot give us a happiness and peace apart from Himself, because it is not there. There is no such thing.”2 And that is why “men’s hearts are failing them”; there is no peace without God.

I love how Ellen White ends her quote about men’s hearts failing. She says, “But those who believe in God will hear His voice amid the storm, saying, ‘It is I; be not afraid.’ ”3 Jesus said, “In the world you have tribulation, but take courage; I have overcome the world” (John 16:33, NASB).

I felt unshaken in that airport because I had hope; my world wasn’t falling apart. That’s when I knew that I was “ready for the end times.” I had Jesus in my heart and mind, and nothing can overcome that!

**React**

`1. How would you describe your gut reaction when the topic of the “end times” comes up?`

`2. Consider these verses: John 16:33; Psalm 27:1; 1 Corinthians 10:13; Deuteronomy 31:6; and Revelation 12:11. How, do you think, might the knowledge of what will happen in the end times be a blessing to you?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “The Coming Crisis,” Signs of the Times, October 9, 1901.</sup>
<sup>2. C. S. Lewis, Mere Christianity (London: Geoffrey Bles, 1952), p. 50.</sup>
<sup>3. White, “The Coming Crisis” (emphasis added).</sup>

_Joshua J. Hester, Council Bluffs, Iowa, USA_