---
title:  The Beginning and the End
date:   03/04/2018
---

**Evidence**: Gen. 3:1–24; Isa. 14:12–14; Jer. 6:2; Matt. 5:10; 28:20; 2 Cor. 11:2; Rev. 12:9

Genesis 3 and Isaiah 14 are crucial for understanding the concept of a loving God in the midst of this pain-stricken world. Two elements are present in Genesis 3: the sovereignty of the King of the universe and the rebellion of His creation. In this passage, God’s infinite mercy is displayed because He would have been justified in eliminating our first parents for their disobedience. In contrast, Isaiah 14 gives insight into the antagonistic character of Satan, the adversary.

Before our world existed, Lucifer was the most exalted angel. Yet discontent and pride would cause the beloved angel to violate God’s perfect law. Adam and Eve learned, too late, the cost of their ambition in stepping outside of God’s will. Although the serpent had promised them an enhanced experience, our first parents actually lost their innocence, and the terrible consequences are still being felt today.

However, God introduced sacrifices, representing Jesus, who would provide an escape. Although Christ won the controversy at the cross by demonstrating the superiority of His character, Satan has continued to assault God’s people. Jeremiah 6:2; 2 Corinthians 11:2; and Revelation 12:9 reveal the symbols used in our memory text. Even though Satan lost the great controversy, he turns his anger against those who faithfully serve God, just as when he was first removed from heaven.

Even with the forces of darkness encompassed about us, we have a blessed hope. Jesus promises in Matthew 28:20 to be with us in the midst of our suffering—even to the end. The Christian walk is difficult, filled with injustice and pain. Yet, great rewards await those who endure and overcome. In His first sermon, Jesus said that the ones who are persecuted for standing on the side of God are blessed (Matt. 5:10). The world will continue to grow more violent as Satan’s destruction draws near. We will feel his wrath, but we may be glad in it.

**React**

`1. What are ways we can see the great controversy played out in today’s world?`

`2. What encouragement can you offer those who are suffering as a result of Satan’s wrath?`

_Derek Patterson, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_