---
title:  Prepare for His Second Coming
date:   04/04/2018
---

**How-to**: Matt. 28:20; Gal. 5:22

Everyone who receives Christ now has the same purpose: to spread the gospel. The way we approach our purpose varies remarkably. We all are unique with special talents. Our uniqueness makes us stand out, but it also connects us to like-minded people. The connections that we make draw us into growing relationships and create communities.

Before Christ ascended to heaven, He gave the disciples the commission to go make more disciples. Christ had many communities of people. His disciples were one community that we still look to today to see the significant impact they had in spreading the gospel. Jesus commanded His disciples to teach others “ ‘to observe all things that I have commanded you; and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age’ ” (Matt. 28:20, NKJV). They had the same responsibility that we have.

Christ is the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. He is and will always be with us. Our lives need to be a light in the midst of the darkness of the world. The way we live and present ourselves reflects Christ in us. Our actions speak volumes. We are walking testimonies of Jesus living in us.

God has given us the best eternal fruit to bear: “love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control” (Gal. 5:22, NKJV). These attributes comprise a godly character and reflect the image of Christ and what He wants us to become. We are imperfect, seeking the perfect One.

We need to take care of each other because we are brothers and sisters in Christ. By helping one another learn the power of the gospel, we will be able to lead others to the truth. Our careers, relationships, values, health, and reputations are all shaped by the choices we make each day. The most important choice is your attitude toward God and the relationship you have with Him. We have to be willing to make sacrifices for Him and not grow weary. When Christ returns, He will recount all that we did to see whether we did all that we could have done.

What a blessed assurance we have to know that Christ is coming back after preparing our home for us in heaven. He is our hope for the future. We have to trust and obey His guidance because He knows what tomorrow will bring.

Let’s hold one another accountable and live a life preparing for the second coming of our Savior.

_Francine Eulizier, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_