---
title:  The Great Controversy
date:   05/04/2018
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 4:11–16

What are we to do in the face of strong differences in opinion? In this week’s lesson, where should the church’s focus be when discussing the great controversy? On Jesus or on distinct doctrines? Some state that the Adventist Church has lost sight of its central vision of Jesus’ character, focusing too much in higher-order theologies and neglecting the more foundational themes of Christian thought in the process. Others disagree, stating that the higher-order theologies are what make the Adventist Church unique. They counter that theology rests upon the foundational themes of Jesus’ character and mission and that to focus solely on these basic themes would lead to a dilution of religious thought and a loss of our identity as a remnant people.

Both sides bring up valid points. On one hand, many Adventists seem to be a bit fuzzy on the foundational themes of Jesus’ ministry. To test your own understanding, see how comfortably you answer these two questions: (1) How does the gospel impact your life? And (2) how does the Sabbath impact your life?

However, does God desire for us a superficial faith? Higher-order themes such as the atonement, the sanctuary, the books of Daniel and Revelation, and Ellen White’s writings provide us with plenty of room in which to grow—and is it not God’s desire for us to grow in relationship with Him? (cf. Eph. 4:11–16).

I believe we can, and should, stop this senseless bickering. Neither opinion discussed previously is at odds with the other, but if we continue to treat them as mutually exclusive, we work against God’s purposes for our good. Our church disagrees with itself needlessly. It’s fruitless—other than dividing us further.

The great controversy is a story about Jesus. He is the center of it all. It’s also an old story, one with many chapters filled with various characters and lessons. Let’s embrace it in its entirety. Let’s disagree when it matters. Let’s learn to love one another as He has loved us.

**React**

`1. In what three ways can you show love and respect to those with whom you disagree? How can you respond if they choose not to show you respect?`

`2. What factors (be specific) play the biggest role in causing disagreement within the church at local, national, and international levels?`

`3. Is the balanced road always the best road? How can one know when to stick with one’s beliefs, regardless of the consequences?`

_David Deemer, Loma Linda, California, USA_