---
title:  The Great Controversy and Us
date:   06/04/2018
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 3:23;8:35–39

**Conclude**

The great controversy started with the fall of Lucifer and his rebellion in heaven. This controversy came down to the first humans, Adam and Eve, and as a result, we are caught in the middle of this conflict. We are not merely bystanders but participants in the conflict as we all have sinned against God and fallen short of His glory (Rom. 3:23). However, God has not left us defeated in our sin but has given us the opportunity to stand with Him in victory. There is nothing in this life that can separate us from the saving love of Christ if we choose to accept Him (Rom. 8:35–39).

**Consider**

- Writing and performing a skit on the beginning of the great controversy and the fall of Adam and Eve. Give special attention to Lucifer’s decision to reject the love of God and his deception of the angels and our first parents.
- Preparing a lesson on the fall of Lucifer and teaching it to a younger Sabbath School class.
- Watching Doug Batchelor’s Cosmic Conflict video, which can be accessed on YouTube, with a group of friends. Afterward, discuss what you think the first war in heaven was like. Also consider how the harmony and peace of heaven was affected by the fall of Lucifer.
- Thinking about your life, on your own, and journaling some moments where you knew you were making a decision between good and evil, no matter how major or minor it was.
- Reading chapter 1 of Patriarchs and Prophets and then drawing a picture of Satan before and after his rebellion in heaven using whatever medium you choose.
- Inviting a doctor to come to your class to talk about your body’s system for fighting diseases that enter your body. Discuss how this is similar to how we must fight in this great controversy.

**Connect**

1. Job 1; 2; 2 Thess. 2:7; Jude 6–15; 2 John 4:1–6.
2. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, chapters 1–4; The Great Controversy.
3. C. S. Lewis, The Screwtape Letters; Mark R. Lasser, Taking Every Thought Captive, chapters 1 and 5.

_J-Fiah Reeves, Houston, Texas, USA_