---
title:  Resolving Conflict and Finding Its Roots
date:  11/11/2018
---

**Logos**: James 4:1; Luke 22:24–26; Acts 6:1–4; 15:1–39

**Conflict and Resolution**

My wife dreads conflict. She will leave a room where voices are rising in pitch. Her sleep may be disturbed even hours after an unpleasant confrontation. And I? Disagreements don’t repel me. I enjoy trying to resolve conflict.

How about you? How do you seek for unity? By confrontation? By avoidance? We probably concur with David that unity is “good” and “pleasant” (Ps. 133:1). But what is the proper way for Christians to achieve unity? How should we resolve conflict? These are two questions we will study this week.

How one resolves conflict depends very much on how the conflict arose. And while there may be hundreds of situations that lead to conflict, we will find principles in four New Testament examples that can help us widely in resolving conflicts today.

**Humility as a Means of Resolution (Luke 22:24–26)**

In the first example, Christ’s chosen men were bickering over who “would be the greatest.” Jesus commented on their argument that a desire for supremacy was to be expected from worldly people. But, He said, it should not be that way among you (Luke 22:26).

“And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve” (Luke 22:24–26).

What we learn here about unity is that it begins with an attitude of service. Self-exaltation pervades society and may even creep into the church. It might even have infected the chosen twelve. But Jesus says, “Each of you, be like the younger person.” Being humble will solve many tense situations.

**Choosing Leaders Wisely as a Means of Resolution (Acts 6:1–4)**

But humility won’t solve all of them. In the second story, the use of church money was at the basis of the conflict. Feelings that the business of the church was not being handled fairly, and even feelings that the Jews were favoring their own widows, gave rise to bitterness.

“And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration” (Acts 6:1). How did the church come back into unity? They did it by carefully choosing men who had a reputation among all parties for being fair and spiritual. And these men were put in charge of handling the money, while the elders of the church left the business behind to devote their attention to sharing the Word of God.

So, practically, choosing your church board well, placing persons widely appreciated for piety and fairness, is an important strategy in preserving our unity. But even choosing the best leaders won’t always prevent conflict.

**Church Authority and Parting as Means of Resolution (Acts 15:1–39)**

In the third incident, angry feelings arose over differing doctrinal positions about the true gospel. As you can imagine, this is generally a touchy point with anyone who believes that the gospel is a life-and-death issue.

In our story, the church was threatened with schism over questions about whether the Gentile Christians were obliged to practice many of the Hebrew rituals. Some said yes. Paul and others said no.

“And certain men . . . taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved. . . . Therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them” (Acts 15:1, 2).

This problem was resolved authoritatively by the church leaders meeting together. (See Acts 15:2–35.) They sent letters to announce their somewhat unpopular conclusion.

While we can learn from this story to depend on the world church to settle its own doctrinal questions, we should not conclude that such decisions will put an end to conflict in the church.

In fact, even in Acts 15 itself, we find the fourth conflict of our study rising among faithful men, Paul and Barnabas. And what drove them apart was a value judgment about the usefulness of a young Christian who earlier had made some mistakes (Acts 15:39).

Here we see that parting ways, agreeing to disagree, was the way consecrated men made peace when they could not agree regarding John Mark. We don’t all need to see things the same to help get the church’s work done. While the world church could resolve doctrinal and policy issues for the church, it could do nothing to make its faithful ministers see eye to eye in lesser things.

**React**

`Conflicts arise over money, desires for promotion, differences of opinion, or even differences in faith. In all these cases the Bible provides a model for coming back together.`

`1. But what about the origins of conflict in your life or church? What if they don’t well parallel any of these stories? (For a general source of conflict, see James 4:1.)`

`2. If conflict comes from our desires and passions, can there be any resolution without victory over the same? Should intemperate people be expected to be sources of local conflict?`

---

_Eugene William Prewitt, Tampin, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia_