---
title:  How to Make Music in Heaven
date:  12/11/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 10:1–23, 28, 29, 34, 35

The story of Peter and Cornelius describes an event that is nothing short of miraculous! Peter is hesitant to share the gospel because of Cornelius’s Roman standing, and we see heavenly agents step into the story. Angels intervened and ministered, while God worked on the heart of Peter! In fact, Ellen G. White counsels us to give “special attention” to this passage. She further advises, “Heaven is much nearer to the Christian who is engaged in the work of soulsaving than many suppose. We should learn through them also the lesson of God’s regard for every human being, and that each should treat his fellow man as one of the Lord’s instrumentalities for the accomplishment of His work in the earth.”1

This work of soul winning is precious; it not only brings the atmosphere of heaven closer to us but can even create music in heaven. “As you open your door to Christ’s needy and suffering ones, you are welcoming unseen angels. . . . They bring a sacred atmosphere of joy and peace. They come with praises upon their lips, and answering strain is heard in heaven. Every deed of mercy makes music there. The Father from His throne numbers the unselfish workers among His most precious treasures.” 2 That is a promise we can all see fulfilled in our lifetimes, a promise that we can be a source of joy and song in heaven.

Unfortunately, many times our internal struggles and our lack of unity create a rift between what we know should be done and what we want to do. But exclusivity does not bring the atmosphere of heaven. Anger, resentment, selfishness, and prejudice will not cause the angels to sing. Humble willingness and action to serve others, regardless of their demographics, is what will bring the greatest joy to the heart of God. As we reflect on what Christ has done for us, the more willing we will be to share that experience with others. “The same interest and tenderness and long-suffering that He has manifested toward us, we are to manifest toward others. ‘As I have loved you,’ He says, ‘that ye also love one another.’ John 13:34. If Christ dwells in us, we shall reveal His unselfish love toward all with whom we have to do. As we see men and women in need of sympathy and help, we shall not ask, ‘Are they worthy?’ but ‘How can I benefit them?’ ”3

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White Comments, The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 6, p. 1059.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 639.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 162.</sup>

_Priscilla Santos, Clearlake, California, USA_