---
title:  Serving the Word of God
date:  13/11/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 6:1–7

God’s evident guidance in the early Christian church did not guarantee it freedom from conflict and division. In fact, it was in the very days that “the number of the disciples was multiplying” (Acts 6:1, NKJV)—during a period of great growth and development—that a subtle but dangerous controversy emerged.

The conflict divided the new believers along cultural lines. Even among circumcised Jews, there were major differences regarding language, education, customs, and cultural background. For example, the Hebrews were accustomed to carefully guarding Moses’ statutes and judgments, while the foreign, Hellenized Jews were known for “imitating the manners, customs, and worship of the Greeks and speaking the Greek tongue” even though they, too, were descendants of Abraham.

The acceptance of the gospel softened major prejudices between the two groups; however, old contentions resurged when talk began to circulate about the unequal treatment of Hellenist widows.

In addressing the complaint, the church leadership faced two main dangers: (1) ignoring the issues and allowing the cultural tensions to build, thus weakening unity or (2) shifting the attention and mission of the church toward meeting the material needs of its members rather than the spiritual.

The response of the Twelve Apostles described in verses 2–4 illustrates how God imparts wisdom to solve conflicts among believers. The Twelve emphasized that spreading the Word of God was their priority and that “serving tables” was not to distract them from the mission. The Greek word for tables, trapeza, is used to describe surfaces used for either serving food or counting and distributing money. Therefore, by stating that it was not “right” to “leave the Word of God, and serve tables,” the church leaders were reaffirming that their attention was not to be diverted from preaching the message of eternal life to serving the temporal, earthly needs of the congregation.

When we face divisive conflicts as a church today, we can be sure that God will provide us with solutions that will ultimately honor and glorify His name.

**React**

`1. What is today’s version of “serving tables,” and how can it distract from our primary mission?`

`2. What is the key to maintaining unity in our church when we come from such varied socioeconomic, cultural, and ethnic backgrounds?`

---

_Kristiana Kim, Murrieta, California, USA_