---
title:  Walking in Love
date:  14/11/2018
---

**How-to**: Ps. 119:1–4; John 17:20–23; Rom. 14:12–21; 1 Pet. 4:8; 2 Tim. 2:15, 22–26

During His time of sorrow and agony in Gethsemane, Jesus prayed a beautiful, selfless prayer for us. He specifically prayed for future believers to have unity—not only to experience relational, unselfish love among one another but also to be a powerful witness to the rest of the world. Given Jesus’ attention to this aspect of the Christian church and community, it is critical that we do all we can to support this unity within the church family.

There are many sources of conflict in our church today, which certainly are not easy to navigate, but we should think about the following guidelines found in the Bible:

Above all demonstrate Jesus’ unselfish, compassionate love toward others (1 Pet. 4:8). When in doubt, we should always have the love of God in our hearts as the motivation for our actions. This should not be about winning a debate or making the other side look intolerant. Each of us is accountable before God, and we want to see the church members who are on the opposing side in heaven too.

Don’t be a stumbling block for your neighbor (Rom. 14:12–21). You may honestly think there’s nothing wrong with a particular issue, and it may be unclear from a biblical perspective; however, don’t cause conflict if you can avoid it. Paul’s example in Romans 14 describes a difference of opinion on diet, and Paul says that if that by eating a particular food you will create a stumbling block for your neighbor, just don’t eat that food in front of him or her. It’s better to pursue the things that promote peace and will edify others.

Prioritize your relationship with God through prayer and Bible study so that you can discern truth and correct someone who is truly misguided (Ps. 119:1–4; 2 Tim. 2:15, 22–26). Even Paul had to call out Peter when Peter was discriminating against Gentiles for no good reason (Gal. 2:11–14). Jesus Himself used a whip to clear out of the temple the people who were taking advantage of the poor and using God’s place of worship as a marketplace (Matt. 21:12, 13). In other words, if there’s something morally wrong happening in the church, we should stand for what is right and follow the appropriate channels to resolve the issue.

**React**

`1. Of all the things He could have prayed for, why did Jesus specifically pray for unity within the family of believers?`

`2. Did love for the other party factor in your actions and responses during the last conflict you had with someone?`

---

_Cintia Nojima, Atlanta, Georgia, USA_