---
title:  Who Am I That I Should Stand in God’s Way?
date:  15/11/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 11:4–24

It’s almost inevitable in every relationship that at some point conflict will arise. However, how we respond to and address these conflicts determines the future trajectory of the relationship. As Christians, when faced with conflicts, be they in our personal or spiritual lives, the example the early Christians modeled is one that we should emulate.

I remember having this experience as a younger boy. At one point my home church wanted to do an evangelistic outreach. We had two venue suggestions: to use the church premises, the best cost-saving option for us, or to pay more and use one of the public facilities in the city that was centrally located and would attract a broader audience.

The church called a business meeting to deliberate on this issue. A majority of the members felt we should use our own facilities to save money while a minority thought that we should go with the second option. But the minority also felt that if it was the will of God that we have this series at the public facility, He would provide the financial resources we needed.

As the deliberation intensified, one of the members stood up and suggested that we pray. To make a long story short, we were given the facility, and to the surprise of many, the city council gave it to us at no charge for the duration of the series. The campaign was successful, and souls were won for Christ. When I look back at this incident, I am reminded of how we are sometimes still ignorant of the power of the Holy Spirit in touching the hearts of individuals. Too often when conflicts arise within our circles, we accept the opinions of the most educated, vocal, or eloquent of the congregation. We very quickly replace the Holy Spirit’s guidance and directions in our churches and lives with that of the men and women whom we class as “very qualified” on the subject matter.

This often creates tensions, factions, and divisions in our churches. Sometimes we join the majority while failing to seek the guidance of the Holy Spirit. In this biblical example, Peter, when confronted with his decision to reach out to the Gentiles, responded, “Who was I to stand in God’s way?” (Acts 11:17, NLT)—a beautiful reminder that oftentimes God leads us into the unexpected.

**React**

`1. Why is an active prayer life important in our walk with Jesus?`

`2. What approach should you use when navigating conflicts in your group?`

`3. How do you know what God’s will and direction is on a subject matter when you are faced with a conclusion that is different from your own?`

---

_Lucien Nana-Yobo, Houston, Texas, USA_