---
title:  When Conflicts Arise
date:  16/11/2018
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 3:27, 28

**Conclude**

Because divine discernment was needed to successfully address the church’s strivings, God-fearing men were selected who would, with much prayer and the guidance of the Holy Spirit, engage in open discussion about unity. Without the Spirit of God, the trusted leaders would not have been able to realize the need for unprejudiced Christian fellowship and its importance in maintaining Christlike unity in the church.

Only in constant connection with Christ will we be able to intentionally regard others more highly than we would ourselves. Self-denial and constant surrender to God are the antidotes to the earthbound virus of internal strife and dissension. The kingdom of heaven is ours, not because of what we have done but because He has ransomed us.

**Consider**

- Praying for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in your life so that your godly character may be a catalyst for barrier-breaking worship, fellowship, and discipleship.
- Reading the book of Acts with your family and friends and writing specific ways your community of faith can exemplify the good works of loving fellowship and wise conflict management of the apostolic church.
- Attending an ethnically diverse church to learn of varied ways of worship and community engagement and to recognize similarities of Christian beliefs, practices, and experiences.
- Watching a nature documentary about ants and learning how the secret to their strength lies in their unity of purpose and activity.
- Engaging in a team-building game during a vespers service and drawing spiritual lessons from the activity that demonstrate this week’s lesson study.
- Composing music with friends about one of this week’s lesson themes: unity in truth.


**Connect**

Acts 2:37–47; 1 Corinthians 12:4–31; Colossians 3:9–17.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 19, “Jew and Gentile”; Christian Experience and Teachings of Ellen G. White, chapter 33, “Organization and Development”; Counsels for the Church, chapter 50, “Christians in All the World Become One in Christ.”

G. Douglass Lewis, Resolving Church Conflicts: A Case Study Approach for Local Congregations, chapters 1 and 2.

---

_Lucile and Wadenerson Saint Martin, Loma Linda, California, USA_