---
title:  The 144,000 and God’s Special Mark
date:   02/02/2019
---

_If we are loyal to God and obey Him, God will bless us._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 7:1–3, 4–8, 9–14; Revelation 14:1–5; 2 Peter 3:14.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “ ‘These are the ones [God’s people] who came out of the time of much trouble. They have washed their clothes [a word picture for someone’s thoughts, feelings, and actions] and have made them white [free from sin] in the blood of the Lamb [Jesus] (Revelation 7:14, NIrV).

**LAST WEEK**, we saw what happened when Jesus started to open the seven locks on the closed book. The open locks warn us that God will bless or punish Christians for their choices. If we are loyal to God and obey Him, God will bless us. But if we do not obey God, He will punish us. The locks, #1–4, that Jesus opened show us that God punishes His people to wake them up and to help them win the war against evil. But God’s followers suffer because they live on earth with people who hate God. When Jesus opens the 6th lock, we see that God is ready to punish everyone who hurt His people.

John puts Revelation chapter 7 between Jesus’ opening the 6th and 7th locks. The 6th lock shows us the time before Jesus’ Second Coming. At that time, God will judge the evil people living on the earth. Revelation 7 shows us a special group of God’s people, the 144,000, who are alive on the earth when Jesus comes back. These people are “sealed.” Sealed means that God put a special mark, or proof, of His power on the 144,000 believers to show everyone they are His people. Revelation 14:1–5 tell us about this special group of 144,000 people to help us know who they are.