---
title:  The Angels Who Hold Back The Winds
date:   03/02/2019
---

_God’s seal is not a real mark. It is a word picture that shows how God’s people “grow more and more loyal to the truth in their minds and hearts so that nothing will change them.”—Ellen G. White, Last Day Events [happen- ings], page 220, adapted._

`What does John see in Revelation 7:1–3? How long will the angels stop the winds from blowing? What will happen when Jesus finishes His work as our Judge?`

In the Old Testament, wind is a word picture for God’s power to judge evil people and punish them (Jeremiah 23:19, 20; Daniel 7:2). In Revelation, John sees “four angels . . . holding the four winds of the earth. They were stopping the wind from blowing” (Revelation 7:1, ERV). Ellen G. White tells us what happens to the winds when Jesus finishes His work as our Judge: “God’s angels stop holding the awful winds. These four winds are word pictures for the bad feelings in human hearts that make people want to fight and kill each other. When the angels stop holding the winds, it means the angels no longer try to stop people from doing evil. Then everyone on earth will experience worse trouble than the war that destroyed Jerusalem in a.d. 70.”—The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 614, adapted. Right before Jesus comes back, God’s angels will pour His anger on the earth. But God will wait until His people are sealed first. “Sealed” means that God puts a special mark, or proof, of His power, on His people that only He can see.

What else does “sealed” mean? In Bible times, people put a seal on something to show they owned it. So, when the New Testament talks about God’s seal, it is a word pic- ture that helps us understand an important truth: “ ‘The Lord knows who his own people are’ ” (2 Timothy 2:19, NIrV). God “writes” His name on His people’s hearts when He pours His Spirit on them (Ephesians 1:13, 14; Ephesians 4:30). That is what God’s seal means. In the end time, God will put a seal on His people above their eyes to show that they obey His law (Revelation 14:1, 12). God’s seal is not a real mark. It is a word picture that shows how God’s people “grow more loyal to the truth in their minds and hearts so that nothing will change them.”—Ellen G. White, Last Day Events [happenings], page 220, adapted.

At different times in history, God tested His people’s loyalty. In the Old Testament, God’s people showed their loyalty to God by keeping the Sabbath (Exodus 31:12–17; Ezekiel 20:12, 20). The Sabbath also will be the test at the end of time that shows who is loyal to God (Revelation 12:17; Revelation 14:12). God’s seal also shows us that God will protect His people from the Seven Last Troubles.