---
title:  The Number Of God’S End­Time People
date:   04/02/2019
---

_The names of the 12 family groups in Revelation 7 have a special meaning. Their names tell us the story of the Good News about Jesus: “I will praise the Lord. He sees my troubles and blesses me. I am happy because my wrestling with God makes me forget [my sadness]. God hears me and joins Himself to me. He bought me a home. God will give to me the Son [Jesus] of His right hand.”—Doug Batchelor’s sermon: “The Battle of Armageddon, (Part 2),” adapted._

`In Revelation 7:4–8, John tells us the number of God’s people who are sealed. You will remember that “sealed” means that God pours His Holy Spirit on His people to show that His people belong to Him. How many sealed people does John see? What does that number mean?`

The angel announces the number of God’s people who are sealed. When that happens, we know that God has fin- ished His work of putting His seal on His people above their eyes. John learns that there are 144,000 people with God’s seal. They come from the 12 family groups of Israel. Does that mean 144,000 is an actual number? No. The number 144,000 is made up of 12 x 12 x 1,000. 12 is a symbol for God’s people. There were 12 family groups in Israel. Also, Jesus’ 12 followers built up His church. So, we see the num- ber 144,000 is a word picture, not a real number. The num- ber 144,000 means all of God’s people alive on the earth when Jesus comes back at His Second Coming (Romans 11:26; 1 Corinthians 15:51–53).

The 12 family groups in Revelation 7 are not the same family groups of Israel in the Old Testament. In Old Testament times, the Assyrians took 10 family groups from Israel into slavery (2 Kings 17:6–23). Then these 10 groups married people from other groups and became part of them. So, these 10 family groups are not part of the Jews today.

Also, look at the list of the 12 family groups in Revelation 7. It is different from any other list of the 12 family groups in the Bible (see Numbers 1:5–15; Ezekiel 48:1–29). Do you see that Judah is the first name on the list, not Reuben? Do you also see that the family groups of Dan and Ephraim are not on the list? But the list includes the family groups of Joseph and Levi instead of Dan and Ephraim. John did not put Ephraim on his list because Ephraim’s family group worshiped false gods (Hosea 4:17). Dan’s family group also worshiped false gods. So, that may be also the reason Dan is not on John’s list (see 1 Kings 12:29, 30). What do all of these things tell us? They tell us that family-group names in Revelation 7 have a special meaning that shows us the story of the Good News about Jesus (see today’s pictures). That is why the list does not match exactly what happened in history. The names show us all of God’s end-time people alive on the earth before Jesus comes back. These people will not die before they go to heaven.