---
title:  The Big Crowd That No One Can Count
date:   05/02/2019
---

_“The palm branches in their hands is a word pic­ ture for their victory. Their white robes are a sign of Jesus’ perfect obedience, which now belongs to them.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 665, adapted._

`In Revelation 7:9, 10, John sees a large group of God’s people. How does John describe them?`

John sees “a large crowd of people. There were so many people that no one could count them all” (Revelation 7:9, ERV). John says that this crowd came “ ‘out of the time of terrible [awful] suffering’ ” (Revelation 7:14, NIrV). The Bible also names this time the “ ‘time of much trouble’ ” (NLV). This group of peo- ple “ ‘washed their clothes and have made them white in the blood of the Lamb’ ” (Revelation 7:14, NLV). They are a special group. Yes, they suffered in life and had some awful experienc- es. But they stayed loyal to Jesus and obeyed Him. The white clothes they wear are a word picture for their loyalty to God. The white clothes also show us that this group of people “wear,” or put on, Jesus’ holy life the same as clothes.

The Bible often uses the words “terrible [awful] suffering” to talk about the things that believers suffer for their faith (Exodus 4:31; Psalm 9:9; Matthew 24:9; John 16:33; Romans 5:3). These verses help us understand that the large crowd that John sees shows us all the saved people who ever lived on the earth, from the time of Adam until the end of time. The Bible shows that this group of saved believers suffered in life for their faith. Evil people hurt this special group because they obeyed God’s truth.

“The people who stand closest to God’s throne worked hard in the past for Satan. But God saved them. These people were the same as branches that God pulled out of a fire. After God saved them, they followed their Savior very closely. They took special interest in God’s cause on earth, and they loved Him very deeply. Next to this group is a sec- ond group. They learned how to be perfect Christians while they lived with people who lied and did not obey God. This group honored the law of God when other fake ‘Christians’ said God’s law had no power in their lives. This second group also includes the millions of God’s followers who died for their faith. After this group, we see the large crowd of God’s people that John tells us about in Revelation 7:9. Their fight is over. The palm branches in their hands are a word picture for their victory. Their white robes are a sign of Jesus’ perfect obedience, which now belongs to them.”— Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 665, adapted.


