---
title:  The People Who Follow The Lamb
date:   06/02/2019
---

_The 144,000 saints are spe­ cial because they are alive on the earth when Jesus comes back._

`Revelation 14:1–5 tell us three important things about the special group of 144,000 people who belong to God. What are these three things? How do these three things match the picture of God’s end­time people that we read about in Revelation 14:12?`

Revelation 14:4, 5 say that the 144,000 believers obey God and have the faith of Jesus (read also Revelation 14:12). Yes, Satan pours his anger on this group during the last days of earth’s history. But they stay loyal to God.

`What does Revelation 14:4 mean when it says that the 144,000 did not sin with women? Read Revelation 17:5 for a hint. What does the Bible mean when it says that “these 144,000 were saved from among [out of] the peo­ ple of the earth? They are the first people to be offered to God and the Lamb” (Revelation 14:4, ICB)?`

Sex sins are a word picture in Revelation for people who are not loyal to God. Revelation 17:5 talks about Babylon and her “daughters.” Babylon and her daughters are word pictures for the churches that turn away from Bible truth. In the end time, almost everyone on earth will sin against God with Babylon and her daughters (Revelation 18:3). Only the 144,000 believers will stay loyal to Jesus. They will not join with Babylon or follow false religions. “They follow the Lamb every place he goes” (Revelation 14:4, ICB).

Why are the 144,000 special? They are the same as the best oil, wine, and grain that Israel gave to God from their crops (Numbers 18:12). But the 144,000 are not special because God saves them in a different way from the way He saves His other people. No. The 144,000 are special because they are alive on the earth when Jesus comes back. The 144,000 see Jesus come in the clouds. So, that is why John says, “These 144,000 were saved from . . . the people of the earth. They are the first people to be offered to God and the Lamb” (Revelation 14:4, ICB).

`The Bible uses sex sins as a word picture to show us what it means to turn away from God. What are ways we can turn away from God without knowing it? Why do we lie to ourselves if we think that this danger is not real?`