---
title:  The God Who Saves Us And His Lamb
date:   07/02/2019
---

_The 144,000 believers wash their robes and make them white in the blood of the Lamb (Revelation 7:14)._

`Read Revelation 14:5 with 2 Peter 3:14 and Jude 24, 25. Revelation says God’s end­time people will be “without [with no] blame” (Revelation 14:5, NIrV). That means God’s people will be free from sin. How is that possible?`

John tells us that the 144,000 “told no lies. They are with- out [with no] blame” (Revelation 14:5, NIrV). The lies that John talks about here are the lies that Satan uses to trick people in the end time (Revelation 13:14). Satan will trick most of the people on the earth into believing his lies. But God’s end-time people will love and accept the truth, and God will save them (2 Thessalonians 2:10, 11).

The words “without blame” come from the Greek word “amōmos [ä’-mō-mos]” which means “not guilty.” Amōmos shows us that the 144,000 are loyal to Jesus and obey Him. In the Old Testament, Abraham (Genesis 17:1) and Job (Job 1:1) were innocent. God made them right with Him. He made them holy. Two thousand years ago, Paul told all Christians also to be holy (Ephesians 5:27; Philippians 2:15).

`Paul talks about an important truth in Romans 3:19–24. Why must we always remember this important truth?`

In the closing days of earth’s history, the 144,000 will show Jesus’ holy life and His love in a powerful way. The lives of God’s people will not show their own holy works or good behavior. Their lives will show what Jesus has done for them (read Ephesians 2:8–10). The 144,000 believers wash their robes and make them white in the blood of the Lamb (Revelation 7:14). Because they do these things, God says that they are “clean and free from sin” (2 Peter 3:14, NLV).

“We need to let God remove from our hearts any love for the things on this earth. We must let God remove the dirt from our lives until we look the same as our Savior. Then we will have God’s own heart and mind. . . .

`“We must fight a war in this life against sin. When God ends that war . . . then it will be safe for us to say that we are saved and free from all sin.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, pages 355, 356, adapted. As we wait for Jesus, we must live holy lives. How do we do that and not start to think that we are perfect on our own?`