---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/02/2019
---

_The 144,000 will experi­ ence the time of trouble (Revelation 7:15–17)._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: “Ellen G. White, “Sinlessness [clean and free from sin] and Salvation [God’s plan to save sinners],” pages 353–357, in Selected Messages, book 3.

Who are the 144,000? Many people today argue about the answer to this question. What seems clear in Revelation is that the 144,000 are the last group of God’s people who live in the last days of this earth’s history. We know that the 144,000 will experience the time of trouble (read Psalm 91:7–16; Revelation 7:15–17). God will test the loyalty of the 144,000 in a way that is different from the way He tested other people before.

But God does not tell us who will be in that group. That is one of the secrets that God has not told us (Deuteronomy 29:29). Only the future will show us who will be a part of this group of saved people. Ellen G. White gives us a strong warning about not trying to find out things that God does not want us to know:

“Jesus says that there will be people in the church who will teach false ideas and made-up stories as truth. God gave His people important truths to make their minds strong and holy. We should keep these truths in the treasure houses of our minds. When men are too curious and want to know things that they do not need to know, God does not lead them. It is not God’s plan for His people to teach things that are not in the Bible. It is not God’s plan for His people to get into argu- ments with each other over questions that will not help their spiritual growth. One example is the question: Who will be part of the 144,000? God’s chosen people will clearly know the answer to this question very soon.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 174, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Think about these words: “With all the power that God gave us, let us work hard to be part of the 144,000.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [ideas], volume 7, page 970, adapted. How can you live in a way so that you can be part of the 144,000 today? How does working hard to be part of the 144,000 change the way you live and all the decisions you make?`

`2. What is the difference between just knowing about Jesus and really knowing who He is? If someone asks you, “Who is Jesus?” what will your answer be? Why?`