---
title:  Jesus, the Faithful Priest
date:  29/01/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Heb. 5:1–10; Gen. 14:18–20; 1 Pet. 2:9; Heb. 7:1–3; Heb. 7:11–16, 22, 26.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “For such a High Priest was fitting for us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens” (Hebrews 7:26, NKJV).

The gulf that existed between God and us was caused by sin. The problem was compounded because sin also implied the corruption of our nature. God is holy, and sin cannot exist in His presence; so, our own corrupted nature separated us from God, just as two magnets in the wrong orientation repel each other. In addition, our corrupted nature made it impossible for human beings to obey God’s law. Sin also involves misunderstanding. Human beings lost sight of the love and mercy of God and came to see Him as wrathful and demanding.

This week, we are going to study the amazing things the Father and the Son did to bridge that gulf. Hebrews 5–7 provides a careful analysis of Jesus’ priesthood. The author analyzes its origin and purpose (Heb. 5:1–10) and then exhorts readers not to disregard it (Heb. 5:11–6:8) but rather to hold fast to the assurance of hope it provides (Heb. 6:9–20). He also explains the characteristics of Jesus’ priesthood (Heb. 7:1–10) and its implications for God’s relationship to believers (Heb. 7:11–28). This week we will focus specifically on Hebrews 5:1–10 and Hebrews 7:1–28.

`_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 5._`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ is the Minister of the true tabernacle, the High Priest of all who believe in Him as a personal Saviour: and His office no other can take. He is the High Priest of the church. . . .<br/>
Christ offered up His broken body to purchase back God’s heritage, to give man another trial. “Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them” [Hebrews 7:25]. By His spotless life, His obedience, His death on the cross of Calvary, Christ interceded for the lost race. And now, not as a mere petitioner does the Captain of our salvation intercede for us, but as a conqueror claiming His victory. His offering is complete, and as our intercessor He executes His self-appointed work, holding before God the censer containing His own spotless merits and the prayers, confessions, and thanksgiving of His people. Perfumed with the fragrance of His righteousness, these ascend to God as a sweet savor. The offering is wholly acceptable, and pardon covers all transgression.—_Signs of the Times_, February 14, 1900.

Christ is the connecting link between God and man. . . . He places the whole virtue of His righteousness on the side of the suppliant. He pleads for man, and man, in need of divine help, pleads for himself in the presence of God, using the influence of the One who gave His life for the life of the world. As we acknowledge before God our appreciation of Christ’s merits, fragrance is given to our intercessions. As we approach God through the virtue of the Redeemer’s merits, Christ places us close by His side, encircling us with His human arm, while with His divine arm He grasps the throne of the Infinite. He puts His merits, as sweet incense, in the censer in our hands, in order to encourage our petitions. . . .<br/>
Yes, Christ has become the medium of prayer between man and God. He has also become the medium of blessing between God and man.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 76.

We may expect to suffer; for it is those who are partakers with Him in His sufferings, who shall be partakers with Him in His glory. He has purchased forgiveness and immortality for the sinful, perishing souls of men; but it is our part to receive these gifts by faith. Believing in Him, we have this hope as an anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast. We are to understand that we may confidently expect God’s favor not only in this world, but in the heavenly world, since He paid such a price for our salvation. Faith in the atonement and intercession of Christ will keep us steadfast and immovable amid the temptations that press upon us. . . .<br/>
. . . We gain heaven not through our own merits, but through the merits of Jesus Christ. . . . Let your hope not be centered in yourself, but in Him who has entered within the vail.—_Advent_ _Review and Sabbath Herald_, June 9, 1896.