---
title:  A Sinless Priest
date:  03/02/2022
---

`Read Hebrews 7:26. What are the five characteristics of Jesus in this passage?`

Jesus was “holy.” This means that Jesus was without fault in relationship to God (Heb. 2:18; Heb. 4:15; Heb. 5:7, 8). The Old Greek translation of the Old Testament used the same Greek term to designate those who maintain their covenant relationship with God and with others.

Jesus was “undefiled.” He remained pure and untouched by evil, despite being tempted in “all points” (Heb. 4:15, Heb. 2:18). Jesus’ perfect sinlessness is important for His priesthood. The old covenant stipulated that sacrificial victims had to be “without blemish” to be acceptable to God (Lev. 1:3, 10, etc.). Jesus’ perfect obedience during His earthly life made it possible for Him to offer Himself as an acceptable sacrifice to God (Heb. 9:14).

Jesus was “separated from sinners” when He ascended to heaven. The Greek verb tense suggests that this is a present state for Jesus, which began at a specific point in time. Jesus endured hostility from sinners during His earthly life, but He was victorious and then was seated at the right hand of God (Heb. 12:2, 3). Jesus also is “separate from sinners” in that He was perfectly sinless (Heb. 4:15).

Jesus was “exalted . . . above the heavens” (ESV). It means that Jesus has been exalted above everything there is and, therefore, He is one with God. In the Psalms, God is the One who is “exalted above the heavens” (Ps. 57:5, 11; Ps. 108:5).

Jesus was fully human, but He was not a sinful human being, as we are (Heb. 2:14–16, Heb. 4:15). Jesus is perfect, not simply because He never sinned but because He was not corrupted by sin as we are.

Yet, because He also was fully human, He also is our Example. He shows us how to run the race of life (Heb. 12:1–4). He is the example that we must follow (1 Pet. 2:21–23). Because He is “holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners” (Heb. 7:26, ESV), He is our Savior, and we, too, can reflect His character.

`Though Jesus was a human being, like us, He never sinned. How do we wrap our minds around this amazing thought? Think about just how holy He must be! Why, then, should the promise of His holiness being credited to us by faith help assure us of salvation?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Jesus has given to childhood and youth a perfect example. Study the Pattern, Christ Jesus, and copy it if you would be like Him—pure, holy, sinless, and undefiled. Study the childhood of Christ. He was the Son of God, yet the Bible record tells us He returned from Jerusalem and was subject unto His parents. . . .<br/>
Jesus, the world’s Redeemer, did as He was told even if the task was not agreeable to His feelings. Obedience is an element of true greatness. No one can be truly good and great who has not learned to obey with alacrity. . . .<br/>
Remember your characters are not finished; you are building up day by day a character. Weave all the kindness, obedience, thoughtfulness, painstaking, and love into it you can. Make it after the divine model. Educate yourselves that you may possess the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit which is in the sight of God of great price. You can make the world better by living in it if you only do the very best you can.—_Our High Calling_, p. 264.

The first four commandments enjoined upon man his duty to serve the Lord our God with all the heart, and with all the soul, and with all the mind, and with all the strength. This takes the whole man. This requires a love so fervent, so intense, that man can cherish nothing in his mind or affections in rivalry with God; and his works will bear the signature of heaven. . . .<br/>
Let men worship and serve the Lord God, and Him only. . . . Anything that is made the subject of undue thought and admiration, absorbing the mind, is a [god] chosen before the Lord.<br/>
Jehovah, the eternal, self-existent, uncreated One, Himself the source and sustainer of all, is alone entitled to supreme reverence and worship. Man is forbidden to give to any other object the first place in his affections or his service. Whatever we cherish that tends to lessen our love for God or to interfere with the service due Him, of that do we make a god.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 56.

In His intercession as our Advocate, Christ needs no man’s virtue, no man’s intercession. Christ is the only sin bearer, the only sin offering. Prayer and confession are to be offered only to Him who has entered once for all into the holy place.<br/>
Christ represented His Father to the world, and He represents before God the chosen ones in whom He has restored the moral image of God. They are His heritage. . . . No priest, no religionist, can reveal the Father to any son or daughter of Adam. Men have only one Advocate, one Intercessor, who is able to pardon transgression. Shall not our hearts swell with gratitude to Him who gave Jesus to be the propitiation for our sins? Think deeply upon the love the Father has manifested in our behalf, the love that He has expressed for us. We cannot measure this love. Measurement there is none. We can only point to Calvary, to the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. It is an infinite sacrifice. Can we comprehend and measure infinity?—_That I May Know Him_, p. 73.