---
title: 'The Most Powerful Book'
date: 19/04/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** 2 Timothy 3:10–17

The Bible. You very likely own at least one copy. It’s the most published and translated book in the world, and also one of the oldest. Throughout history, this precious book has been banned, copied in secret, and smuggled. People risked their lives by obtaining, believing, and sharing the Bible. Many died for defending its message.

Today, in the digital age, many people can search the Bible on their phones or listen to audio Bibles if desired. With more translation, more printing, and more digital access, Bibles are more widely distributed today than ever before. However, while copies of the Bible are more freely available than ever, so are the distractions that cause people to neglect the sacred book.

Where is the Bible in your life? Do you read it, or does it sit beside your bed or on a bookcase gathering dust? Is life too busy for you to find time to really study the Word of God or do you feel too tired to open its pages? God’s Word is living and powerful, and God is calling for you to let it speak to your heart, encourage you, challenge and change you, and give you guidance and hope.

The Bible is not just an academic book or a collection of old stories. It’s a beautiful, profound account of how the Creator of the universe seeks to draw us close to Him. If we desire to grow in our relationship with God, the best thing we can do is commit to spending quality time with Him every day—praying, reading His inspired Word, and surrendering our will to what it teaches.

Before we explore why the Bible is so valuable and how to dig deeper in our personal Bible studies, we must understand something: one of the most significant attacks Satan can make is to stop us from spending time with God in His Word. The enemy works diligently to keep people away from their Bibles through business, apathy, tiredness, or doubt. He knows that when we spend time with God in His Word, it revives our lives and nourishes our souls, so of course he does everything he can to prevent this!

We are told that “Satan employs every possible device to prevent [people] from obtaining a knowledge of the Bible; for its plain utterances reveal his deceptions.”<sup>1</sup> Satan knows that God’s Word makes him powerless. Satan knows that prayer and Bible study are the most powerful weapons humanity can use against him (Eph. 6:17, 18; Heb. 4:12), so he does everything he can to stop us from reading it and from praying. He knows that God’s words hold authority—they not only spoke this world into existence (Ps. 33:6) but can raise the dead (John 11:41–44) and give us strength to overcome (Matt. 4:1–11).

By keeping us away from our Bibles, Satan weakens not only our relationship with God but our relationships with others as well. Our marriages become strained, we yell at our kids, and we don’t have patience with our friends or coworkers. Life seems too busy; we feel stressed and burdened, with no escape route. Surprisingly, we rarely pause long enough to realize what’s happening. We might think we’re close to God, but when we let days and weeks pass by without spending quality time in His Word, we become more distant from Him whether we realize it or not.

Even when we have an up-and-down and very inconsistent relationship with God, He is wonderfully constant. His mercies never fail; “They are new every morning” (Lam. 3:22, 23). Even when we’ve ignored God and gone our own way, He eagerly waits to welcome us back and restore the relationship. This week, we will examine the Bible’s role in deepening our relationship with God. We will especially consider how to approach Bible study so that God can speak to us and transform our lives through His living, written Word.

### inScribe

`Write out 2 Timothy 3:15–17 from the translation of your choice. Take note of what these verses tell you about the Bible’s function.`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (1911), 593.