---
title:  Scripture, the Authority
date:   19/04/2026
---

### inGest

The Bible’s authority and function are clearly declared within its pages. For the Bible to have its full impact in our lives, we must accept the inspiration and authority of “all Scripture” (2 Tim. 3:16, emphasis added), not just those parts we tend to agree with. When the Bible conflicts with our opinions, we must allow the Bible to correct us and not attempt to correct the Bible. The Bible is not meant to serve our purposes or perspectives, as these are often not the same as God’s.

God is not a puppet on a string, waiting to serve our needs and wills. His ways and thoughts are so much higher than ours (Isa. 55:9); we should never try to control His words to us. Neither should we pick and choose only the parts of the Bible that feel comfortable to us. We should see the Bible as a complete package rather than reading the easy, familiar passages and leaving out the confronting or challenging ones. If we truly want God to speak into our lives, we must take the Bible as a whole and use sound methods to engage in careful Bible study, trusting that God will reveal what we need to hear when we need to hear it.

Jesus Himself tells us, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind” (Matt. 22:37). God doesn’t want to bypass our minds; He wants to inform our minds with His vast knowledge and understanding, which He reveals, in part, through His Word. This truth is supported by the many biblical narratives in which God had back-and-forth discussions with people—with Enoch, Abraham, Moses, and Job, for example—as well as the many conversations Jesus had when He was on earth. God’s invites us to think and engage with Him: “Come now, and let us reason together” (Isa. 1:18). He doesn’t expect us to stop thinking when we come to Him.

Human reason, however, is still human—capable of error and deception. It’s never infallible. Our human reasoning sometimes tries to push God aside and attempts to work things out on our own. This thinking places self as equal to or above God. Some people approach Scripture with an arrogant and critical spirit, thinking they’ve heard it all before and there’s nothing new to be discovered. It’s when we feel important, confident, self-sufficient, and in need of nothing that we neglect our relationship with God and rely on our own limited knowledge and faulty reasoning.

**Questions to explore:**

`How much time do you spend in the Bible each day? How do you spend that time? What can you do to make that time more spiritually profitable?`