---
title:  Receiving Instruction
date:   20/04/2026
---

### inTerpret

2 Timothy 3:16 identifies instruction as one of Scripture’s four key roles. Throughout the Bible, God pleads with us to receive His instruction (Prov. 8:33). Our ability to do so depends largely on the state of our hearts. The same words can completely change one person’s life but have no impact on another’s. Only some people have spiritual discernment (1 Cor. 2:14), which refers to having spiritual insight and understanding. It makes sense, then, that a spiritually open-minded person would have very different takeaways from reading the Bible compared to a spiritually closed-minded person. Someone who thinks the Bible is foolish won’t look for truth in its pages.

Both our attitude toward the Bible and the way we approach reading it are very important for growing in a relationship with God. The Word is life changing for those who receive it with humility and meekness (James 1:21). When people’s hearts are soft, they receive the Word deep in their souls and receive new life from it (1 Pet. 1:23). When hearts are closed, instruction from the Word never goes deeper than the surface.

God’s Word works in us when we have faith. When we believe God has something to say to us, He will indeed speak to us through His Word and work in our lives. However, much depends on our faith and expectations. The good news is that if our faith is small, God can help it grow (Mark 9:24), even if it’s tiny like a mustard seed (Luke 17:6).

One of the Bible’s great purposes is to speak truth into our lives regarding the condition of our relationship with God and how to strengthen it. If our hearts are open to the Holy Spirit, if we approach the Word with humility, we will always come away changed—though we might not immediately recognize it because such change and growth is often gradual. However, if we cling to our apathy and sin and are unwilling to change, reading the Bible avails us little. In fact, “There is much reading of the Bible that is without profit and in many cases a positive injury.”<sup>1</sup> With the wrong attitude, our spiritual condition can actually worsen while we are reading the Bible.

It’s important to recognize that the benefit of God’s Word depends on how we receive it. When our hearts are open, we can sense the Holy Spirit prompting us to move closer to Jesus Christ. Do we want to step closer? If so, we become “wise for salvation” (2 Tim. 3:15), and we’ll see things we never imagined.

`What is the state of your heart and mind as you approach the Bible? Do you bring your opinions to the Bible with the goal of trying to justify them, or do you come with an open mind and heart, ready with childlike faith to see what God wants to tell you? Why is that answer so important?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from 2 Timothy 3:10–17. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ (1892), 110.