---
title:  Look at Him
date:   22/04/2026
---

### inVite

A trend among liberal theologians in the 1960s was to write God out of the field of theology. In 2017, the cover of Time magazine featured the headline “Is Truth Dead?” This trend illustrates the position of today’s society. The very idea of truth itself is decaying to such an extent that no one knows what truth is anymore. According to popular culture, there is no measuring stick, no foundation that can be depended on to endure the test of time. However, Jesus declared, “I am the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6). His statement was not limited to one culture or time period. He declared Himself to be the universal truth for all time. Jesus is not one truth among many, but the truth for all.

The Bible presents Jesus as this truth. Regarding the Scriptures, Jesus said, “These are they which testify of Me” (John 5:39). Through the written Word, the truth that is Jesus has been preserved for all generations. The Old Testament promised His coming, and the New Testament documented His arrival. Jesus is present symbolically in the Old Testament and revealed in the New Testament. Both testify to one truth. That basic truth, Jesus Himself, never changes (Heb. 13:8). At the same time, as we read God’s Word, our understanding of Jesus and His truth grows. “There are mines of truth yet to be discovered by the earnest seeker.”<sup>1</sup> We can search for additional light in the Bible because the Bible never contradicts past truths, but instead builds on them.

In the end, the Bible, and the Bible alone, must be the foundational source of what we understand as truth. All other sources must be tried and tested by the Word of God. Even what we deem “reason” needs to be tested by the Word of God.

What might change in your home if you turned to the Bible when faced with a big decision, relationship problem, or challenge? What might change in your workplace or church if the words of the Bible truly became the lens through which people viewed the world and chose to live? No other book can speak to the soul as these words can. If your life is empty and you are hungry, open the living Word. Read Jeremiah 15:16, Matthew 4:4, and 1 Peter 2:2. God’s words taste good to the mind and heart, and when we read them, they fill and sustain us.

The messages in the Bible came from God Himself. God sent them specifically for every person who has sought Him. When we read them with a prayerful, open heart, those words are not wasted.

**Questions to consider:**

Some people want to argue that there is no truth. How is that statement self-contradictory? That is, why is making the claim that there is no truth an attempt to proclaim truth, and thus self-refuting?

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5 (1889), 704.