---
title:  God’s Heart
date:   23/04/2026
---

### inSight

If you consider the words you’ve spoken during the past twenty-four hours, how would you evaluate them? Were they loving, kind, joyful, uplifting, frustrated, tired, anxious, angry, gossipy, or malicious? The Bible says, “Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks” (Matt. 12:34). When we have junk in our hearts, it comes out in our words.

We’ve all experienced feeling frustrated, tired, or stressed, and that state of mind changes what leaves our mouths (often words we later regret). In contrast, when our heart is bursting with love for someone, it flows through our words. In the same way, God’s Word speaks of His heart and His intentions toward us. It’s amazing to think that these very words, straight from the heart of God Himself, are in our possession in the Bible. It’s truly incredible to see the power God’s words have held throughout history.

“It is one thing to treat the Bible as a book of good moral instruction, to be heeded so far as is consistent with the spirit of the times and our position in the world; it is another thing to regard it as it really is—the word of the living God, the word that is our life, the word that is to mold our actions, our words, and our thoughts. To hold God’s word as anything less than this is to reject it. And this rejection by those who profess to believe it, is foremost among the causes of skepticism and infidelity in the youth.”<sup>1</sup>

“The whole Bible is a revelation of the glory of God in Christ. Received, believed, obeyed, it is the great instrumentality in the transformation of character. And it is the only sure means of intellectual culture.

“The reason why the youth, and even those of mature years, are so easily led into temptation and sin is that they do not study the word of God and meditate upon it as they should. The lack of firm, decided will power, which is manifest in life and character, results from their neglect of the sacred instruction of God’s word. They do not by earnest effort direct the mind to that which would inspire pure, holy thought and divert it from that which is impure and untrue. There are few who choose the better part, who sit at the feet of Jesus, as did Mary, to learn of the divine Teacher. Few treasure His words in the heart and practice them in the life.”<sup>2</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Education (1903), 260.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8 (1904), 319.