---
title: inQuire
date: 25/04/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**A message from God:**

1. How is the Bible different from any other book in human history? See this week’s inTro.
2. What are the benefits of studying Scripture? 2 Tim. 3:15
3. Why is Scripture important, and what various roles does it fill? 2 Tim. 3:16, 17
4. What’s the significance of accepting that all Scripture is inspired by God? 2 Tim. 3:16, 17
5. What’s the significance of believing Scripture is the Word of God and not just of men? 1 Thess. 2:13; 2 Pet. 1:19–21

`Personal reflection: What’s the difference between reading the Bible as a book about God versus a book from God? How do you make your Bible study relational so that it strengthens your connection with God?`

**Discovering truth:**

1. What/who is truth? John 14:6; 17:17
2. Where do we find the truth that is Jesus? John 5:39

`Personal reflection: If speaking with a skeptic, what would you share as some of the reasons for your faith and your confidence in the Bible?`

**Receiving the Word:**

1. How must we receive the Word if it’s going to save us? James 1:21
2. How should God’s Word sustain us daily? Jer. 15:16, Matt. 4:4; 1 Pet. 2:2

`Personal reflection: What has the Bible done for you personally? What would your life be like without the Bible?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- All Scripture is given by God, and reading it is foundational to growing our relationship with Him.
- Scripture is where we get to know Jesus, the Source of all truth.
- The Bible not only teaches us about God’s wonderful character and His interactions with humanity throughout earth’s history but also speaks to each of us today when we come to it in humility.