---
title:  Being Loyal to Jesus
date:   02/09/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 6:1–9; Matthew 18:1–5, 10; Colossians 3:21; 1 Timothy 6:1, 2; 1 Peter 2:18–25.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Masters, in the same way, be good to your slaves. Do not say things to scare them. You know that the One who is your Master and their Master is in heaven. And that Master treats [loves] everyone alike [the same]” (Ephesians 6:9, ICB).

In 2018, people visited the Bible Museum in Washington, D.C. The visitors came to see a special Bible. The Bible was more than two hundred years old. The Bible was printed in a.d. 1808. The Bible was missing many chapters. The people who made this Bible removed 90% of the Old Testament and 50% of the New Testament! Our Bibles have 1,189 chapters. But the 1808 Bible had only 232 chapters!

Why was the 1808 Bible so short? Slavery was legal in America at that time. So, the people who printed the Bible removed any verses that they thought would cause slaves to run away or fight against their masters. The people who made the Bible left only the verses that they believed supported slavery. One of these verses is Ephesians 6:5, which many people misunderstand to this day. “You servants who are owned by someone must obey your owners. Work for them as hard as you can. Work for them the same as if you were working for Christ” (Ephesians 6:5, NLV).

As Christians, how do we understand what Paul wrote in Ephesians 6:5–9 about slavery? This week, we will learn how the Good News helps us to understand Paul’s message.