---
title:  Advice to Children
date:   03/09/2023
---

`What advice does Paul give to children? Which Old Testament verses does Paul use to support what he says? Read Ephesians 6:1–3 for the answers. Also, read Matthew 18:1–5, 10; Mark 10:13–16 to help answer the questions.`

Who are the children Paul talks about? When we know the answer to this question, we will understand better Paul’s advice. The word written as “children” in Ephesians 6:1–3 is “ta tekna” in the Greek language. “Ta tekna” can mean children who are young or old. In New Testament times, children were under their father’s control until the father was 60 years old (in Greek families) or until the father died (in Roman families). The children that Paul talks about are young enough to be trained by their parents (Ephesians 6:3). At the same time, these children are old enough to make the decision to follow Jesus.

Remember, Paul’s letter will be read in the house churches in the city of Ephesus. In his letter, Paul commands children in the house churches to obey and honor their parents (compare Ephesians 5:22; Ephesians 6:4, 5, 7–9). Paul wants adult church members to respect children as Jesus’ followers and to let them help out at church on Sabbath. In Ephesians 6:1–3, we learn important rules for being parents and for teaching children about Jesus.

Paul’s command for children to obey their parents doesn’t suggest that children must obey their parents without question. “If parents ask children to do something that disobeys Jesus, the children must obey God. The children must not worry about what will happen if they don’t obey. The children must trust God to take care of things.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 293, adapted.

Paul finishes his advice to children by asking them to remember the fifth commandment. The Ten Commandments are very important to Paul (read Ephesians 4:1–6:9; also, read Ephesians 4:25, 28; and Ephesians 5:3–14). Paul starts his quote with, “You must respect your father and mother” (Ephesians 6:2, ERV). Then Paul adds, “This is the first command that has a promise with it” (Ephesians 6:2, ERV). Paul finishes his quote with, “If you respect your father and mother, you will live a long time and your life will be full of many good things” (Ephesians 6:3, NLV). No parents are perfect. But the fifth commandment shows us that God’s plan for our lives includes honoring our parents.