---
title:  Advice to Parents
date:   04/09/2023
---

`Compare Ephesians 6:4 and Colossians 3:21. What reason does Colossians 3:21 give us for not making our children angry?`

The Book of Sirach was written by a Jewish man named Sirach. In his book, Sirach gives advice to parents. Many Jewish parents read this book during Paul’s time. Here is some of Sirach’s advice: “Fathers, if you love your sons, you will whip them often. . . . If you are too nice to your sons, they will make you sorry for it. . . . Punish your sons and give them heavy loads to carry in this life to keep them out of trouble. Then your sons won’t upset you with their bad behavior.”—Sirach 30:1, 9, 13, NRSV, adapted.

Paul’s advice is very different from Sirach’s advice. Paul warns, “Fathers, do not make your children angry. But teach them the things children need to know, and tell them what they must not do. Teach them what Christ would teach them” (Ephesians 6:3, WE). In Paul’s day, fathers had full legal control over their children. Children were their parents’ property. Fathers could punish their children with hard punishment or kill them for disobeying them. In some ways, a father had more control over his kids than a master had over his slave. That doesn’t mean Paul is saying that owning slaves is okay. Paul is helping family members to build better trust and love. Paul invites Christian fathers to think carefully about how they punish their children. If fathers make their children angry, the children may not want to serve God. So, parents need to be careful.

“Fathers and mothers, in the home you must show God’s love. You must ask your children to obey you. But don’t shout at them to obey you. Let your words be loving and kind. . . .

“Be nice to everyone in your home. Do not say any word that will cause anyone to get angry. ‘Fathers, don’t make your children angry’ [Ephesians 6:4, ERV]. This command comes from God. . . .

“God doesn’t give parents permission to punish their children with mean and nasty words. God doesn’t want parents to be rough with their children when they disobey. God’s love must fill the hearts of the parents and government leaders. Then parents and leaders can teach the ones in their care about God’s law.”—Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, page 259, adapted.