---
title:  Slavery in Paul’s Day
date:   05/09/2023
---

`Read Paul’s advice to slaves and slave masters: Ephesians 6:5–9; Colossians 3:22–4:1; 1 Corinthians 7:20–24; 1 Timothy 6:1, 2; 1 Peter 2:18–25. Write in your own words what you think Paul is saying.`

We may be surprised by Paul’s advice to both slaves and their masters. Maybe we have a hard time trying to imagine a picture of Christian slave masters sitting together with their Christian slaves in the same house churches. If the slave masters were really Christians, why didn’t they free their slaves?

We must understand that slavery during New Testament times was different in many ways from slavery in American and European history. First, slaves in New Testament times were not all from the same race group. Second, house slaves were sometimes trained or educated. They could work as builders, doctors, or thinkers. Sometimes a master freed his house slaves after they served him. But most slaves were not freed.

Yes, slavery was different in some ways in the New Testament from the slavery in the 1800s. But no slavery is ever “good.” All slavery is evil. No one has any excuse to make anyone else a slave. We can be thankful that God will judge and punish slave masters by His law.

The cry of ex-slave Publius Syrus breaks our hearts: “I wanted to die so no one would hurt me anymore because I was a slave. That is why death is so beautiful.”

The Greek word for “slave” in Ephesians 6:5–8 is “doulos.” Some Bible thinkers today wish to change this word from “slave” to “servant” to show that house servants often were educated and then later freed. But we must remember that all slaves, including house servants, belonged to their masters. Their masters had full control over them and could punish them at any time. So, the best way to write “doulos” in Ephesians 6:5–8 is “slave.” “Slave” is the best word because it shows us that these men and women lived in danger at all times (Ephesians 6:9).

Slavery was part of life in Paul’s time. His advice isn’t about how to end slavery. His advice is about how both slaves and masters can live a new life in Jesus.