---
title:  Slaves Who Belong to Jesus
date:   06/09/2023
---

`What does Paul ask Christian slaves to do? Read Ephesians 6:5–8 for the answer.`

Paul asks Christian slaves to obey their masters. Paul also asks slaves to work for their masters as if they were working for Jesus. At the same time, slaves must remember that they belong to Jesus. So, they must not give their masters the loyalty that belongs only to Jesus. Paul’s ideas about slavery helped Christians in his day change the way they thought about masters and slaves.

Let’s read in Ephesians 6:5–8 some of Paul’s ideas about masters and slaves:

* Paul wants slaves to remember that their real Master is in heaven (Ephesians 6:5).
* Slaves must serve their masters with honor and respect in this life. They must serve them as if they were serving Jesus (Ephesians 6:5, 6).
* Paul also tells Christian slaves: “You must do more than obey your masters to please them only while they are watching you. You must obey them as you are obeying Christ. With all your heart you must do what God wants” (Ephesians 6:6, ICB).
* Paul also tells slaves to “work gladly as if you were working for the Lord and not for men” (Ephesians 6:7, WE).

When Jesus comes back, Christian slaves will get a reward for all their hard work they did for their masters in this life. That’s because these Christian slaves did their work for Jesus. So, these slaves may expect a reward from Him. Do you see how this idea offered hope to slaves? A slave may feel that his human master doesn’t like him and doesn’t encourage him in his work (compare 1 Peter 2:19, 20). But the Christian slave has a Master in heaven who cares about him and sees every good thing he does. This thought was comforting to Christian slaves in Paul’s day.

`Review the important rules that Paul gives slaves in Ephesians 6:5–8. How can these rules help us in our jobs today?`