---
title:  Masters Who are Slaves
date:   07/09/2023
---

`Imagine in your mind that you are a Christian slave master in Paul’s day. You are in your house church where someone reads Paul’s letter to the Ephesians. Your slaves are there, too, listening to the letter. How would you as a slave owner feel when you heard Paul’s advice about slaves in Ephesians 6:9?`

Paul gives slave masters this advice: “Masters, in the same way, be good to your slaves. Do not say things to scare them. You know that the One who is your Master and their Master is in heaven. And that Master treats [loves] everyone alike [the same]” (Ephesians 6:9, ICB). This advice was surprising to slave owners in Paul’s time. Paul asked slaves to work hard for their masters. Now Paul asks slave owners to be kind to their slaves. Paul tells slave masters to stop being mean to their slaves and to stop hurting them. In New Testament times, masters punished their slaves in many ways (1 Peter 2:20). Some of these punishments included beating, selling, starving, putting slaves in chains, forcing them to have sex, and killing them.

Paul gives slave masters two reasons for changing their behavior:

1\. As Christians, slave owners are, also, “slaves.” They are the slaves of Jesus. So, Jesus is the Master of both the slave and the slave owner (compare Colossians 4:1).

2\. God is the Judge of everyone. As our Judge, God is fair. He doesn’t show more favor to one person than He shows to another person. God respects everyone the same. In God’s eyes, the slave is worth the same as the slave owner. God loves both of them the same, too. So, slave masters should show slaves the same love and respect that God shows them (compare Philemon 15, 16).

Paul’s message in Ephesians filled the hearts of Christian slaves with hope. Christian slaves were:

1. Adopted as God’s children (Ephesians 1:5).
2. Saved by Jesus (Ephesians 1:7).
3. Chosen by God and given blessings (Ephesians 3:6).
4. Part of God’s family in heaven (Ephesians 2:19).
5. Important members of God’s church (Ephesians 3:6).