---
title:  Additional thought
date:   08/09/2023
---

Let’s review the two most important Bible truths about children we learned this week. Paul taught us that:

1\. We should respect children as Jesus’ followers (Ephesians 6:1–3).

2\. Fathers are responsible for teaching and training their children to serve the Lord (Ephesians 6:4).

This advice helps us to remember the needs of children today. Paul’s advice also helps us to understand our duty as parents. But how do we follow Paul’s advice to slaves (Ephesians 6:5–8) and to slave masters (Ephesians 6:9) today? Many of us don’t live in a country where slavery is legal. As Christians, we also know that any type of slavery is evil. So, what do we do with Paul’s advice? Paul’s advice is part of the Good News about Jesus. The Good News is not only good. The Good News also is the news we most need now for our lives. It is important for us to think about how to follow Paul’s advice in our own time and place. The Good News can help us in all our connections with families, friends, and coworkers. The discussion questions below will help us to do this important work.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus said that when we show love for children, we show that we are ready to meet the Lord (read Luke 1:17; Malachi 4:6). What do Jesus’ words mean for us today as Adventists?`

`Many children have been hurt, forced to have sex, and feel a lot of shame. What is our duty to these children? How can we help them?`

`What duty does the church have to protect and care for the children in its care? What do we need to do to keep children safe and make our churches safe places for our kids?`

`Paul’s advice to slaves and slave masters (read Ephesians 6:5–9) also is good advice for bosses and employees. How do you think Paul’s advice can help workers in the workplace?`

`More than 40 million people are slaves today (http://www.globalslaveryindex.org/). What is our duty to these men and women today?`