---
title:  Healing through Forgiveness
date:  15/02/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 18**

**Healing through Forgiveness**

A few years ago, I was counseling a gentleman who was suffering from fibromyalgia and high blood pressure. As we talked, he told me he had an issue with forgiving a relative. In fact, whenever he thought about the individual, his blood pressure rose and he then experienced pain and discomfort throughout his body. His medical doctor had prescribed medication for his blood pressure and fibromyalgia. I prescribed the need for forgiveness, explaining that the amygdala in his brain could cause the adrenal glands to release adrenaline and cortisol into his bloodstream, which in turn could cause his fibromyalgia and blood pressure issues. Within four months of making a conscious effort to work on his issues of forgiveness, his blood pressure and fibromyalgia medications were reduced, and within eight months, he was off all medications completely. This is the power of forgiveness in action. Not only did he feel better physically, emotionally, and spiritually, but best of all, he was reconciled to his brother!

Hanging on to bitter feelings induces chronic stress, which can be associated with high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, and other devastating health problems (see Katia Reinert, “The Influence of Forgiveness on Health and Healing,” 2021, www.academia.edu/87516855/The_Influence_of_Forgiveness_on_Health_and_Healing). Bitterness and resentment are some of Satan’s most successful strongholds. Everyone has been hurt by someone. When we withhold forgiveness, we become imprisoned and tormented by our past. The Christian who has been taken advantage of or wronged in any way must, through Christ’s help, learn to forgive. It’s easier said than done, but is essential for true freedom. This week, we will look at how forgiveness works and how to be set free from our past hurts to experience a life filled with joy through the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Read Matthew 18 from the translation of your choice. Write out verses 21 and 22. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `