---
title:  Abundant, Overflowing Forgiveness
date:  16/02/2025
---

#### inGest

It’s said that to err is human; to forgive is divine. This is so true. To accomplish the standard of forgiveness that Jesus set in Matthew 18:21, 22 certainly requires a power outside of ourselves. Here, Jesus was not telling His disciples to limit their forgiveness to exactly 490 times (a number that is, for all practical purposes, beyond counting). Rather, Jesus was reminding His followers to never stop forgiving others for their wrong actions and that forgiveness is unconditional. By God’s grace, Christians with forgiving hearts do not limit the number of times they forgive. They forgive just as freely the 500th time as they do the first time. True forgiveness can never be based on shrewd scorekeeping.

During Christ’s time, the Jewish rabbis taught that forgiving someone more than three times was unnecessary. They used Amos 1:3–13 to justify their belief, in which God forgave Israel’s enemies three times, then punished them the fourth time. By offering forgiveness seven times (more than double that of the Old Testament example), Peter probably expected Jesus to pat him on the back and say, “Great job!” Peter and all those listening must have been stunned when Jesus told them to forgive far beyond seven times! Although they had been watching Jesus’ forgiveness in action for some time, they were still thinking in the limited terms of the law rather than in the unlimited terms of His grace.

Jesus’ parable of the unforgiving servant, given directly after His “seventy times seven” speech, drove home the point that if God forgives us our enormous debt of sins against Him, how much more eager should we be to forgive those who sin against us (Matt. 18:23–35)? Ephesians 4:32 parallels this example where Paul admonishes us to forgive one another “even as God in Christ forgave you.” Clearly, forgiveness is not to be meted out in a limited fashion but is to be abundant, overflowing, and available to all, just as the measureless grace of God is poured out on us.

Forgiveness was prepared for us long before the world was spoken into being (Gen. 3:15; Eph. 1:3–6; Rev. 13:8). Even before God created you and me, knowing that we would rebel against Him and would need to be adopted back into His family, God made provision through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We should also prepare to forgive others according to the love and mercy God has shown us. Preparing to forgive can be a hard thing to do and can feel like a blow to our (self-righteous) egos. However, just as God forgives our own multitude of sins, He also desires for us to extend the same mercy to others.

Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verse from Matthew 18. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How is God’s standard of forgiveness different from ours?`

`How should God’s forgiveness toward us change the way we forgive others?`

` `