---
title:  The Meaning of Forgiveness
date:  17/02/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Being hurt by someone can be devastating, especially when a trusted person causes serious harm. Matthew 18 speaks of being hurt or offended by someone close to us (vv. 15, 21). Sometimes we try to just forget and move on, but when the emotional hurt lingers and the pain deepens, we become anxious, angry, and even bitter. The more we try to bury it, the more the memory holds us hostage whether we realize it or not.

Forgiveness is one of the most misunderstood and difficult aspects of renewing our minds. Forgiveness doesn’t mean we pretend nothing ever happened. Instead, true forgiveness involves accountability. Where safe and appropriate, the contention should be resolved between the offender and the wounded person alone (Matt. 18:15). When reconciliation is unsuccessful or unattainable in a private setting (such as with cases of abuse), then one or two others should be brought into the discussion (v. 16). If this small group cannot resolve the problem, then the whole church should take action (v. 17).

In each step of the process, forgiveness means that the wounded person surrenders his or her rights to take personal vengeance against the wrongdoer (1 Sam. 24:12; Rom. 12:19). The right to vengeance should always be surrendered to God and His appointed agencies: the government (Rom. 13:1–4) and the church (Matt. 18:17). God is judge, not us. He alone can truly know a person’s heart and judge fairly. Christ’s teachings on forgiveness, discipline, and reconciliation make it clear that in extreme cases where the offender is an abuser or a criminal, forgiveness does not mean ignoring, forgetting, and covering up wrongdoing. A victim should never feel that there is some contradiction between forgiving someone and reporting the incident to the proper authorities. God is a God of justice, along with a God of mercy (Ps. 89:14). When a crime has been committed, prison can often be the best place for the forgiven person to heal and recover.

Sometimes people are reluctant to forgive because forgiveness can feel like an admission that everything’s okay—as if the problem was no big deal! However, only guilty people need to be forgiven. In that sense, forgiveness is accusatory. By extending forgiveness to someone, you are accusing that person of having done wrong.

Another roadblock to forgiveness can be the issue of trust and reconciliation. However, forgiving a person does not mean you trust them or that the relationship goes back to where it was before. Often, the relationship can be healed and the forgiven person can be trusted again, which is God’s ideal. At other times, forgiven people need new boundaries. The story of how David related to his abuser, King Saul, powerfully illustrates the difference between trust (reconciliation) and forgiveness. Twice David spared Saul’s life and forgave him freely, yet he kept distance between them because Saul was untrustworthy (1 Sam. 24:22; 26:13, 22). Forgiveness is given; trust is earned.

#### Journal

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are the most challenging parts about forgiveness, and how can you overcome them?`