---
title:  Learning to Forgive
date:  19/02/2025
---

#### inVite

Learning to forgive is not easy. Like a baby learning to walk, we can practice taking little steps toward forgiveness. Important milestones along the path to forgiveness can be remembered using the acronym PREACH, which stands for Pray, Remember, Empathize, Assess, Commit, and Hold.

Pray. The first step in seeking to forgive others and/or accept someone’s apology is prayer. We should pray for God to soften our hearts, help us see ourselves and the situation from His perspective, and to create in us a clean heart and a right spirit or attitude (Ps. 51:10; 139:23, 24).

Remember. The next step is to remember the wrongdoing. Don’t push anything aside, especially if it makes you feel angry or upset. Name your emotion, write it down, and note what specifically makes you feel that emotion. Take that emotion to God and relinquish the hurt to Him (1 Pet. 5:7). Consider talking to a trusted friend or a good counselor. Then ask God how you as a Christian should handle those emotions.

Empathize. The next step is to try to understand the other person’s point of view regarding why she or he hurt you, without minimizing or downplaying the wrong that was done. Quite often the wrongdoing was partially due to something the other person was dealing with, a reflection of his or her own brokenness. Understanding what the other person has experienced in no way excuses the wrong, but it does add perspective. Ask God to help you begin seeing the person through His eyes.

Assess. The next step is to closely assess your own flaws and shortcomings. Recall a time when someone forgave you. How did it make you feel? Most of all, recall how the Lord has forgiven you. Embracing the forgiveness you’ve received enables you to extend forgiveness toward others.

Commit. The next step is to commit yourself to forgive. Tell a friend or write about your forgiveness in a journal or a letter that you don’t send. Read it over and imagine the freedom that comes from forgiving the person and turning the results over to God.

Hold. The final step is to hold on to the Lord and to your forgiveness. When the memory of the offense returns, take the emotional pain back to Jesus and ask Him to carry it.

Remember this: forgiving is not forgetting or erasing. Forgiving is releasing the person and the situation to God so that you can be free from it. We may feel hurt when we remember the offense, but we do not need to allow that hurt to keep us in bondage to the person or the pain they have caused us. Jesus wants to set us free by helping us to forgive those who have wronged us.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Matthew 18 again to see where Jesus is and how you can apply this passage in your daily life.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What happens when we do not forgive?`

`Prayer Response:`