---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Before Annas and the Court of Caiaphas,” pp. 698–715; “Judas,” pp. 716–722, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“While the degrading oaths were fresh upon Peter’s lips, and the shrill crowing of the cock was still ringing in his ears, the Saviour turned from the frowning judges, and looked full upon His poor disciple. At the same time Peter’s eyes were drawn to his Master. In that gentle countenance he read deep pity and sorrow, but there was no anger there.

“The sight of that pale, suffering face, those quivering lips, that look of compassion and forgiveness, pierced his heart like an arrow. Conscience was aroused. Memory was active. Peter called to mind his promise of a few short hours before that he would go with his Lord to prison and to death. He remembered his grief when the Saviour told him in the upper chamber that he would deny his Lord thrice that same night. Peter had just declared that he knew not Jesus, but he now realized with bitter grief how well his Lord knew him, and how accurately He had read his heart, the falseness of which was unknown even to himself.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pp. 712, 713.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How, by merely reading what Jesus predicted in Mark 14:9, are we seeing another of Jesus’ predictions—a highly unlikely prediction given the circumstances in which it has been uttered—actually being fulfilled?`

`Compare and contrast Judas and Peter. How were they alike and how different in the way they acted in the Passion Narrative?`

`Discuss the meaning of the Lord’s Supper. How can we make this more meaningful in our church and involve more members in its celebration?`

`Discuss the fact that God said no to Jesus’ prayer in Gethsemane. What does it mean when God says no to us?`

`Though Peter greatly failed Jesus with his denials, Jesus did not cast him off. What hope can you take for yourself from this fact?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Our High Calling_, “Beware of Self-Confidence,” p. 307;\
_The Desire of Ages_, “Judas,” pp. 716–722.