---
title:  'Jesus: The Basis of Our Testimony'
date:  06/09/2020
---

As Christians, we all have a personal story to tell, a story about how Jesus changed our lives and what He has done for us.

**Read Ephesians 2:1–10. What were we like before we knew Christ? What is ours since we have accepted Christ?**

`A.	Before we knew Christ (Eph. 2:1–3).`

`B.	After we knew Christ (Eph. 2:4–10).`

What an amazing change! Before we knew Christ, we were “dead in trespasses and sins,” “walking in the course of this world,” “fulfilling the desires of the flesh,” and “were by nature children of wrath” (NKJV). To put it simply, before we knew Christ, we wandered aimlessly through life in a lost condition.

We may have experienced what appeared to be happiness, but there was an angst of the soul and an unfulfilled purpose in our lives. Coming to Christ and experiencing His love made all the difference. Now in Christ we are truly “alive.” Through the “exceeding riches of His grace” and His “rich mercy” toward us, we have received the gift of salvation. He has raised us up to “sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness toward us in Christ Jesus” (NKJV). In Christ, life has taken on new meaning and has new purpose. As John declares, “In Him was life, and the life was the light of men” (John 1:4, NKJV).

`Read Ephesians 2:10. What does this text tell us about how central good works are to the Christian’s faith? How do we understand this idea in the context of salvation by faith “without the deeds of the law” Rom. 3:28?`

`How has your life changed because of Christ, a change that could possibly help someone else come to a knowledge of Jesus?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"Through the transforming grace of Christ, the fruits of the Spirit are made manifest in the life of those who were once dead in trespasses and sins. In disposition, in words, and in actions, they are seen to be partakers of the divine nature. This wonderful grace was revealed to Paul, and he worked constantly that others might be brought to a knowledge of these saving truths. _The Upward Look, p. 309"_

"By sin we have been severed from the life of God. Our souls are palsied. Of ourselves we are no more capable of living a holy life than was the impotent man capable of walking. There are many who realize their helplessness, and who long for that spiritual life which will bring them into harmony with God; they are vainly striving to obtain it. In despair they cry, “O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from this body of death?” Romans 7:24, margin. Let these desponding, struggling ones look up. The Saviour is bending over the purchase of His blood, saying with inexpressible tenderness and pity, “Wilt thou be made whole?” He bids you arise in health and peace. Do not wait to feel that you are made whole. Believe His word, and it will be fulfilled. Put your will on the side of Christ. Will to serve Him, and in acting upon His word you will receive strength. ... He will impart life to the soul that is “dead in trespasses.” Ephesians 2:1. He will set free the captive that is held by weakness and misfortune and the chains of sin. _The Desire of Ages, p. 203"_

"We must learn of Christ. We must know what He is to those He has ransomed. We must realize that through belief in Him it is our privilege to be partakers of the divine nature, and so escape the corruption that is in the world through lust. Then we are cleansed from all sin, all defects of character. We need not retain one sinful propensity.... [Ephesians 2:1-6 quoted.]

As we partake of the divine nature, hereditary and cultivated tendencies to wrong are cut away from the character, and we are made a living power for good. Ever learning of the divine Teacher, daily partaking of His nature, we cooperate with God in overcoming Satan’s temptations. God works, and man works, that man may be one with Christ as Christ is one with God. Then we sit together with Christ in heavenly places. The mind rests with peace and assurance in Jesus. _The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 943"_

"In His Word God reveals what He can do for human beings. He molds and fashions after the divine similitude the characters of those who will wear His yoke. Through His grace they are made partakers of the divine nature and are thus enabled to overcome the corruption that is in the world through lust. It is God who gives us power to overcome. Those who hear His voice and obey His commandments are enabled to form righteous characters. Those who disregard His expressed commands will form characters like the propensities that they indulge. _Letter 44, 1903"_