---
title:  Telling the Story of Jesus
date:  08/09/2020
---

Who were the first missionaries that Jesus ever sent out? They were not among the disciples. They were not among His long-time followers. The first missionaries that Jesus sent out had been mad men, demoniacs who a few hours before had terrorized the countryside and struck fear into the hearts of the neighboring villagers.

With supernatural demonic power, one of these demoniacs broke the chains that bound him, shrieked in horrific tones, and mutilated his own body with sharp stones. The agony in their voices only reflected a deeper agony in their souls (Matt. 8:28, 29; Mark 5:1–5).

But then they met Jesus, and their lives were changed. They would never be the same. Jesus drove the tormenting demons out of their bodies into a herd of pigs and over a cliff into the sea (Matt. 8:32–34; Mark 5:13, 14).

`Read Matt 8:28-34. What happened to these men, and what did the townspeople find when they came out to see what had happened? `

The demoniacs were now new men transformed by the power of Christ. The town’s people found them sitting at the feet of Jesus, listening to every word from the Master’s mouth. We should note that Matthew’s gospel says that there were two demoniacs delivered, while Mark’s gospel focuses the story on only one of the two. But the point is, Jesus restored them physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually.

`Read Mark 5:18–20. Obviously these changed demoniacs, these new converts, wanted to stay with Jesus, but what did Christ send them to do?`

“For a few moments only these men had been privileged to hear the teachings of Christ. Not one sermon from His lips had ever fallen upon their ears. They could not instruct the people as the disciples who had been daily with Christ were able to do. But they bore in their own persons the evidence that Jesus was the Messiah. They could tell what they knew; what they themselves had seen, and heard, and felt of the power of Christ. This is what everyone can do whose heart has been touched by the grace of God.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 340. Their testimonies prepared Decapolis, ten cities on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, to receive the teachings of Jesus. This is the power of personal testimony.

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"When the [demoniacs], gnashing their teeth and foaming at the mouth, approach Him, Jesus raises that hand which has beckoned the waves to rest, and the men can come no nearer. They stand before Him, raging but helpless.

With authority He bids the unclean spirits come out of them. The unfortunate men realize that One is near who can save them from the tormenting demons. They fall at the Saviour’s feet to entreat His mercy; but when their lips are opened, the demons speak through them, crying, “What have we to do with Thee, Jesus, Thou Son of God? art Thou come hither to torment us?” Matthew 8:29.

The evil spirits are forced to release their victims, and a wonderful change comes over the demoniacs. Light shines into their minds. Their eyes beam with intelligence. The countenances so long deformed into the image of Satan become suddenly mild, the bloodstained hands are quiet, and the men lift their voices in praise to God. _The Ministry of Healing, pp. 95-97"_

"What is Christianity? God’s instrumentality for the conversion of the sinner. Jesus will call to account everyone who is not brought under His control, who does not demonstrate in his life the influence of the cross of Calvary. Christ should be uplifted by those whom He has redeemed by dying on the cross a death of shame. He who has felt the power of the grace of Christ has a story to tell. He seeks to put in operation methods of work which will diffuse the gospel of Christ. Humanity, drawing its efficiency from the great source of wisdom, is made the instrumentality, the working agency, through which the gospel exercises its transforming power on mind and heart. _Lift Him Up, p. 230"_

"In the work of cleansing and purifying our own souls our intense desire to make our own calling and election sure will inspire us with a yearning for others who are in need. The same energy and careful thought which we once brought into worldly matters will be put into the service of Him to whom we owe everything. We shall do as Christ did, seizing every opportunity to work for those who without help will perish in their degradation. We shall extend to others a helping hand. Then with singing and praise and thanksgiving we shall rejoice with God and the heavenly angels as we see sin-sick souls uplifted and helped, as we see the deluded and insane clothed and in their right minds sitting at the feet of Jesus, learning of Him. As we do this work, receiving of God and rendering back to Him that which He has in confidence lent us to dispose of for His name’s glory, His blessing will rest upon us. Then let poor, discouraged, sin-sick souls know that in keeping of His commandments “there is great reward,” and by our own experience show to others that blessing and service are linked together. _Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, p. 304"_