---
title:  Part of God's Family
date:   31/12/2022
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 3:14, 15; Psalm 50:10–12; Psalm 23:1; Deuteronomy 6:5; Matthew 6:19–21.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The Father has loved us so much! This shows how much he loved us: We are called [named] children of God” (1 John 3:1, ERV).

As Christians, we are God’s children and part of His family. God blesses His children with many wonderful gifts. One of these gifts is His trust. God trusts us to manage His work on this earth. From the start of human history, God made Adam and Eve responsible for taking care of everything He made. (Read Genesis 2:7–9, 15.) Just look at all the jobs that God trusted Adam and Eve to do: (1) God asked Adam to name the animals. (2) God made Adam and Eve responsible for taking care of the Garden. (3) God told Adam and Eve to have many children and to fill the earth with their kids and grandkids. All these jobs show us that God expects us to work with Him while we live on this earth.

God also blesses the church with money. We bring our offerings to church on Sabbath. Our church leaders collect the money for God. The money managers for the church make budgets and write checks for the work God wants done. God wants us to support His work. He also encourages us to spend our leftover money on the things we need. God wants us to help the needy, too. He also trusts us to raise His children, build His buildings, and teach new Christians Bible truth.

This week, we will study what it means for us to be part of God’s family.