---
title:  We Are Part of God’s Family
date:   01/01/2023
---

> <p></p>
> “I bow in prayer to the Father because of my work among you. From the Father every family in heaven and on earth gets its name” (Ephesians 3:14, 15, NIrV).

`Paul uses the word picture of a family to show us that we belong to God. What hope do these verses give us?`

Early in His work on earth, Jesus teaches His followers to pray. Jesus says, “ ‘So this is how you should pray: “Our Father in heaven, we pray that your name will always be kept holy” ’ ” (Matthew 6:9, ERV). Do you see in this prayer how Jesus tells His followers to say, “Our Father in heaven”? Jesus sees us as His family. He talks about us as His brothers and sisters. That’s why, after He wakes up from the dead, Jesus says to Mary, “ ‘I have not yet gone up to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them this: ‘I am going back to my Father and your Father. I am going back to my God and your God’ ” (John 20:17, ICB).

We have the same Father as Jesus. So, Jesus is our Brother. We also are brothers and sisters in the Lord. Jesus became a member of the human family on earth so that we can become members of God’s family in heaven. “The family in heaven and the family on earth are one family.” —Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 835, adapted.

`What does God think about us? Read Exodus 3:10; Exodus 5:1; and Galatians 3:26, 29 for the answer. Why should this Bible truth encourage us?`

Modern science teaches us that we are here only by chance and that life is an accident. But the Bible teaches us that God loves us and cares about us. So, Bible writers often use the word picture of a family to show us that God loves us very much. That’s why Jesus names Israel “My people” or says that they are the “sons of God.” As we just saw, Jesus also says that God is “our Father.” All these names teach us the same Bible truth: God loves us the way family members should love each other. That’s good news for us because life can be very difficult and hard at times.

`What would happen if we loved everyone the same as we loved our family? How different would life be? How will our feelings about people change if we think about them as our brothers and sisters?`