---
title:  God Owns Everything
date:   02/01/2023
---

`Read Psalm 50:10–12; Psalm 24:1; 1 Chronicles 29:13, 14; and Haggai 2:8. What Bible truth do we learn from these verses? What should this message teach us about how we should feel about the things we own?`

1 Chronicles tells us about King David’s wish to build a house for God. This story starts in chapter 17. David told Nathan about his wish. Nathan was God’s special messenger. Nathan told David, “ ‘Do what you want to do. God is with you’ ” (1 Chronicles 17:2, ICB). But that night, God told Nathan that David couldn’t build God’s house. So, David asked Nathan if he could draw the plans for the temple and get all the materials ready for the building anyway. David was allowed to do these two things. So, David spent his life collecting a large amount of cut stone, wood, iron, gold, silver, and brass. David ordered the building materials to be brought to the place where the temple was going to be built. Then David asked all the leaders of Israel to come together to praise God and give Him thanks.

In 1 Chronicles 29:13, 14, David prays in public. What does he say is the reason he and the people have so much to give God? Because God gave them so much. David knows that he and his people cannot brag about bringing to God these special building materials. Why? Because everything belongs to God. When we give to God, we are just giving back to God the things that belong to Him.

We need to remember this important Bible truth. God made everything in the beginning (read Genesis 1:1; John 1:3; Hebrews 1:2). So, God really is the Owner of everything. That includes everything that belongs to us. Maybe we worked hard to earn what we have. But we need God and His mercy to help us take care of everything. We need God to live. So, every chance we get, we should praise God and thank Him for being so good to us. Then we will have no trouble remembering that God owns everything.

“ ‘All these things didn’t come from me and my people. All these things come from you. We are only giving back to you things that came from you’ ” (1 Chronicles 29:14, ERV). What does this important rule teach us about God? How should we feel about Him and everything we own?