---
title:  God Gives His Family Many Gifts
date:   03/01/2023
---

God’s best gift to His children is Jesus Christ. Jesus brings us peace, forgiveness, and mercy for daily life and for spiritual growth. Jesus gives us the hope of everlasting life. Jesus saves us.

“ ‘God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. Anyone who believes in him will not die but will have eternal life’ ” (John 3:16, NIrV). “But some people did accept him. They believed in him. To them he gave the right [the honor] to become children of God” (John 1:12, ICB).

God also gives us so much more. Many people are worried about having enough food to eat and clothes to wear. Jesus says to them, “ ‘What you should want most is God’s kingdom and doing what he wants you to do. Then he will give you all these other things you need’ ” (Matthew 6:33, ERV).

`Read Psalm 23:1; Psalm 37:25; and Philippians 4:19. What do these verses teach us about how God gives us everything we need each day?`

When Jesus talked to His followers about His going away, He promised to send them the Holy Spirit to comfort them. “ ‘If you love me, you will do what I command. I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper to be with you forever. The Helper is the Spirit of truth [the Holy Spirit]. The people of the world cannot accept him, because they don’t see him or know him. But you know him. He lives with you, and he will be in you’ ” (John 14:15–17, ERV). Later, Jesus adds, “ ‘The Holy Spirit is coming. He will lead you into all truth’ ” (John 16:13, NLV).

The Holy Spirit Himself gives wonderful gifts to God’s children. (Read 1 Corinthians 12:4–11.)

So, we can see that God gives us life now. God gives us everything we own so that we may serve Him in this life. He gives us the promise of everlasting life, too. God also gives us spiritual gifts so that we can be a blessing to other people. Because of God “we live, and move, and are alive” (Acts 17:28, WE). “ ‘God is the One who gives life, breath, and everything else to people’ ” (Acts 17:25, ICB). We owe God everything. So, we must use all our gifts, talents, skills, money, and stuff to honor His name.