---
title:  What God Asks His Children To Do
date:   04/01/2023
---

We all enjoy the spiritual blessings and gifts in this life that God gives us. It also is nice to know that we are part of God’s family.

`Read Deuteronomy 6:5 and Matthew 22:37. What do these verses mean? How do we do what the Lord asks us to do in these verses?`

How do you love God with “ ‘all your heart, soul [thoughts and feelings] and mind’ ” (Matthew 22:37, ICB)? The Bible gives us the answer. The answer is interesting because it is not what most people expect.

`Read the question in Deuteronomy 10:12, 13. What should our answer be? (Read 1 John 5:3 and Micah 6:8 for the answer.)`

Keep the law? Obey the commandments? Sad to say, many Christians believe that obeying the law is the same as trying to earn God’s favor with good behavior. These Christians believe that God only wants us to love Him and our neighbor. But God says we show Him and our neighbor our love when we obey His commandments.

“We show that we love God when we obey his laws. His laws are not hard to obey” (1 John 5:3, WE). For sure, we love God, so we keep His commandments.

In Matthew 7:21–27, Jesus says that the people who obey God’s words are the same as a wise builder. The wise builder builds his house on the rock. People who don’t obey God’s words are the same as a foolish builder. The foolish builder builds his house on the sand. His house is destroyed. Both builders know God’s law. One builder obeys the law. The other builder doesn’t. The wise builder and his house are protected from the storm. The storm destroys the foolish builder and his house.

`Think about the connection between loving God and obeying His law. How does keeping the commandments show our love for God? Why do you think God wants us to show our love for Him in this way? (Hint: think about what happens when we break God’s law.)`