---
title:  Treasure in Heaven
date:   05/01/2023
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘Don’t save treasures for yourselves here on earth. Moths and rust will destroy them. And thieves can break into your house and steal them. Instead, save your treasures in heaven, where they cannot be destroyed by moths or rust and where thieves cannot break in and steal them. Your heart will be where your treasure is’ ” (Matthew 6:19–21, ERV).

We’ve all read stories about people who lost all their money. Wars, crime, and natural disasters can come at any time and destroy everything we worked for. Death also can come without warning. So, everything we own becomes useless to us anyway. Of course, the Bible doesn’t say it’s wrong to be rich or get riches. Jesus just wants us to remember what those riches really are for.

What does Jesus mean when He says that we should save our treasures in heaven? Jesus wants us to put God first and not money. We must use our money to support God’s work on this earth. God wants us to build up His kingdom. God wants us to help other people and bless them with our money, too.

We see these Bible rules in Abraham’s story. God used Abraham to bless everyone on the earth. The Bible says, “God called [named] Abraham his friend” (James 2:23, NIrV). God said to His friend Abraham, “ ‘I will build a great [big] nation [people group] from you. I will bless you and make your name famous. People will use your name to bless other people. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you. I will use you to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 12:2, 3, ERV).

“Abraham believed God and was blessed. And so those [people] who believe God are blessed too, along with him [Abraham]” (Galatians 3:9, WE). God wishes to use us today to bless other people, just as He used Abraham in the past.

“Money has value because it can do much good. We must use our money to buy clothes for the poor and feed the hungry. Money helps us to fight evil causes. Money helps us to heal the sick. But we must use our money to buy only what we need, to bless people, and to support God’s work.” —Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 351, adapted.

`“ ‘Your heart will be where your treasure is’ ” (Matthew 6:21, ERV). Where is your treasure? In heaven or on earth? What does your heart tell you?`