---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/01/2023
---

“God’s love for His children on earth is stronger than death. God gave His Son to save us because He loves us so much. God poured everything in heaven into this one Gift. Jesus works right now in heaven to save us. Jesus gave us His life. Then He died for us. The angels also work with Jesus to help save us. The Holy Spirit goes to God for us. The Father works in all these things to save us. Everyone in heaven works together with God. God and His angels never get tired of doing everything they can to save us.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 21, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`God gives His children many wonderful gifts. All His gifts touch our hearts and fill us with thankfulness. We may say with the psalm writer, “The Lord has been so good to me! How can I ever pay him back?” (Psalm 116:12, NIrV). Make a list of all the spiritual blessings and gifts in this life that God gave you. Be ready to share your list with the class. What does your list teach you about how thankful to God you really should be?`

`We think about God as the One who made us. The Bible also teaches us, again and again, that God keeps life going, too. (Read Hebrews 1:3; Job 38:33–37; Psalm 135:6, 7; Colossians 1:17; Acts 17:28; 2 Peter 3:7.) Yes, God holds everything together and keeps it going: that includes all the stars we see in the sky and the blood that our hearts pump. How should this wonderful Bible truth help us understand just how much we owe God? How should this Bible truth also help us to understand better what we should do with everything God gives us?`

`The lesson talks about why Jesus is the best Gift that God gave us. Why is that so? What if we didn’t have this Gift and the hope that He offers us? What really would we have then? Nothing, right? A writer who doesn’t believe in God said that humans are nothing more than “pieces of spoiled meat on rotten bones.” If we haven’t accepted Jesus as our Savior, why is this writer right?`