---
title:  Jesus and the Book of Revelation
date:   14/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne, just as I was victorious and sat down with my Father on his throne’ ” (Rev. 3:21, NIV).

**Find the Character**

**Introduction**: Rev. 19:11–15

We were rehearsing an aria for a small opera production at school. The soprano, relieving many of my fears, knew the music and lyrics from memory—one less thing to worry about. There was something else missing, however: the character. “In this line, your character has suddenly gone from feeling determined to remain loyal to her lover to wondering, painfully, whether he’ll do the same,” I pointed out.

“You know,” she replied, “I hadn’t really paid attention to what it said.” Once we figured out and applied the character changes, we were onto something.

We must go beyond and place our focus on Jesus.

Growing up I was always a bit apprehensive about the book of Revelation. Whenever a pastor or a church member gave a sermon on this book, the whole service seemed more like a horror movie than anything resembling the Lamb of God. Even the book title, Apocalipsis in Spanish, contributed to the eerie atmosphere. I didn’t see much hope for the end times. Perhaps even now I keep my distance from Revelation because of fear, without realizing who the main character is: Jesus.

From the beginning, we are told this revelation is “from Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants what must soon take place” (Rev. 1:1, NIV). In the same opening chapter, we see a picture of the “First and the Last,” the “Living One” calling us not to be afraid for He holds “the keys of death and Hades” (Rev. 1:17, 18). The seals and the trumpets accompany frightening depictions of disasters. Then come the dragon, the beasts, the plagues, the angels’ announcements—the setting more and more apocalyptic as we approach the end. It’s understandable, even easy, to lose sight of Him who is described as a Lamb.

Chapter 19 places Jesus at the center of the action. Without moving away from the war theme, Jesus appears on a white horse, powerful and victorious, His robe dipped in blood, a heavenly army dressed in white just behind Him. The name written on His robe reads: “King of kings and Lord of lords” (Rev. 19:11–16, ESV).

I can’t beautify the awful pictures presented throughout Revelation, but I can place in them Jesus, front and center. As we prepare for the end of time, we rightly look at the book of Revelation. But we must go beyond and place our focus on Jesus. Notes and words find new meaning when seen through a defined character—likewise, we ascribe the correct meaning to the Revelation from Jesus Christ only when our main character is Jesus.

_Enrique Quezada, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_``