---
title:  'Revelation: A Revealing of Jesus'
date:   15/04/2018
---

**Logos**: John 1:29; 1 Cor. 2:2; Heb. 9:2–5; Rev. 1:1–8; 3:21; 5:8

**Revelation the Climax** (Rev. 1:1–3, 7)

The first words are incredibly insightful. “The Revelation of Jesus Christ” (Rev. 1:1, NKJV; emphasis added). The word revelation is a visual word, conveying the idea that something, which perhaps had previously been hidden from view, can now be seen. As a result of our first parents partaking in sin, God, near the inception of the human race, had to bar humanity from direct physical access to Himself (Gen. 3:22–24). This began the “veiling” of God from human beings, and sin is what necessitated it.

Speaking to Moses, God clearly said, “ ‘You cannot see My face, for no man can see Me and live!’ ” (Exod. 33:20, NASB). Ever since Eden, we have been behind this veil, able to discern God only from a distance. In Paul’s words, “Now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then face to face” (1 Cor. 13:12, NKJV). However, paradoxically, Scripture also clearly teaches that salvation from sin and ultimate reconciliation with God involve seeing God at some level.

God has the power of a lion, as it were, but the heart of a lamb.

The answer embedded in history and in the pages of Scripture is that God, piece by piece, is revealing more and more of Himself to us. Through the pens of prophets and the symbols of sacrifice, He progressively reveals more of Himself. And the clearest revealing of God comes in the person of Jesus Christ. In the person of Christ, we are actually observing God veiled in humanity.

The climax of God’s self-revealing through Jesus is in the final book of Scripture: Revelation. Building upon the cumulative, revealed knowledge of God and salvation, God, through the prophet John, throws wide open the door, as it were, virtually tossing aside the veil to reveal Jesus in all His glory. This book is the revelation of Jesus Christ. Not only can we see God more clearly now, but humanity will also physically once more see God— with no more veil between. “Every eye shall see Him” (Rev. 1:7, NKJV).

**Jesus Revealed in Pictures** (Rev. 1:4–8, 18; Rev. 5)

We first encounter Christ in Revelation as the Eternal, Almighty God—the same God from whom we withdrew in Genesis. Astoundingly, we are told that He was dead, but we are reassured that He is alive forevermore and has power over death and the grave. This points to the centrality of the Cross, the mighty salvific bridge between Genesis and Revelation, between God and humanity. In the Gospels, we have clearly encountered the humanity of Jesus while discerning His divinity. Here we are clearly encountering His divinity while being reminded of His permanent humanity. Jesus is Ruler.

Pressing on into the pages of Revelation, one of the next pictures we see is delineated in chapter 5. Here Jesus is referred to once as a Lion and four times as a Lamb. Immediately we are reminded of John the Baptist pointing to Jesus early in His ministry and exclaiming “ ‘Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!’ ” (John 1:29, NKJV). Truly, Christ’s sacrifice for you and me is at the heart of this chapter and the book of Revelation. In fact, you’ll notice that the word throne is used five times in this chapter. This chapter reveals something about the nature and foundation of God’s throne.

The core ingredient in the government of God is self-sacrifice, driven by an infinitely deep love. This sacrifice on cosmic display eventually wins the homage of all intelligences (Phil. 2:8–11). Yes, God has the power of a lion, as it were, but the heart of a lamb. Knowing who God really is—His character and the nature of His government—is reassuring as we dig into the eschatological passages of Revelation. Yes, Revelation has beasts, but it’s about Jesus.

**Jesus Revealed in Symbols** (Rev. 11:19)

Revelation is replete with not only imagery but symbolism. None is so clear as the sanctuary symbolism and language. The sanctuary motif runs throughout Revelation. In the eleventh chapter of the book of Revelation, we read a description of the ark of the covenant, located in the Most Holy Place of the heavenly temple. Throughout Revelation, we encounter articles of furniture from the first and second compartments of the sanctuary (Rev. 1:20; 8:3; 11:1).

For generations, Jews had ministered in the earthly model, which was a “shadow,” or example, of the real thing in heaven.

People had tried to parse the meaning of these symbols. Now, with Christ, what was, maybe, hard to discern is gloriously clear! The heavenly temple is now “open,” and we actually see the sanctuary articles being used in the context of Christ’s ministry.

**Christ’s Focus Revealed** (Rev. 3:21; 22:7, 12, 13, 20)

The final book of the Bible clearly reveals Jesus. Like nowhere else in Scripture, we can pull all the biblical pieces together and view a complete and beautiful picture of God’s love, His character, the nature of His government, and how He will resolve the sin problem. So while our focus in Revelation is on Jesus, something profound emerges. More clearly than anywhere else, perhaps, we see that Christ’s focus is on . . . us! Yes, you! He says that He’s coming for you—quickly in fact. You can almost hear the eager anticipation. He has rewards. He wants you to sit on His throne. Wow! In the Gospel of John, Jesus tells His disciples, “I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also” (John 14:3). Yes, Christ’s focus is on you and me, and soon, we will once more as humanity and for the first time individually “see His face” (Rev. 22:4, NKJV).

**React**

`Does the Lamb and sanctuary imagery in Revelation give you hope? If so, how?`

_Keith LaRoy, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_