---
title:  The Heavenly Sanctuary
date:   16/04/2018
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 11:19; Heb. 8:1, 2

The recurring theme of the sanctuary in the book of Revelation is pivotal in understanding Christ’s role as our heavenly Priest. The question “What is the sanctuary?” is clearly answered in the Scriptures. The term sanctuary, as used in the Bible, refers first to the tabernacle built by Moses, after a heavenly pattern; and, second, to the “true tabernacle” in heaven, to which the earthly sanctuary pointed. At the death of Christ, the typical service ended. The “true tabernacle” in heaven is the sanctuary of the new covenant.

The sanctuary in heaven is the very center of Christ’s work in behalf of men.

The Holy Places of the sanctuary in heaven are represented by the two apartments in the sanctuary on earth. In vision the apostle John was granted a view of the temple of God in heaven, he beheld there “seven lamps of fire burning before the throne” (Rev. 4:5). He saw an angel “having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne” (Rev. 8:3).

The prophet beheld the first apartment of the sanctuary in heaven, and he saw there the “seven lamps of fire” and the “golden altar,” represented by the golden candlestick and the altar of incense in the sanctuary on earth. Again, “the temple of God was opened” (Rev. 11:19), and he looked within the inner veil, upon the Holy of Holies. Here he beheld “the ark of his testament,” represented by the sacred chest constructed by Moses to contain the law of God.

Moses made the earthly sanctuary after a pattern that was shown him (Exod. 25:8, 9). Paul teaches that that pattern was after the true sanctuary, which is in heaven (Heb. 9:24). And John testifies that he saw it in heaven.

The sanctuary in heaven is the very center of Christ’s work in behalf of men. It concerns every soul living upon the earth. As Ellen White states, “When Christ ascended to heaven, He ascended as our Advocate.”1 “So Christ, the great High Priest, pleading His blood before the Father in the sinner’s behalf, bears upon His heart the name of every repentant, believing soul. Says the psalmist, ‘I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me.’ Psalm 40:17.”2

**React**

`1. Compare and contrast the imagery of Christ as our High Priest and Christ as the sacrificial Lamb of God.`

`2. How is Christ’s role in the sanctuary depicted in Revelation?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 202.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Christ in His Sanctuary, p. 30.</sup>

_Lauren Shields, Tampa, Florida, USA_