---
title:  Heirs to the Father’s Throne
date:   17/04/2018
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 1:18; 21:6

“To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne, just as I was victorious and sat down with my Father on his throne” (Rev. 3:21, NIV). This verse is often used as a “comfort verse” during difficult times. While this verse is incredibly comforting, especially in bad circumstances, it actually is a promise: a promise of an inheritance.

The word victorious in this text comes from the Greek word nikaó, meaning “to conquer.”* In this particular verse, the word has also been translated as “to overcome” or “to endure” and comes with the connotation of a conflict. Nikaó is used in Revelation six times before this verse to describe the reward of the one who is victorious (nikaó), and every time the victorious one is mentioned, it is right after a message has been delivered to one of the seven churches pointing to the battle fought to overcome the issues of each church.

Each reward stems from character.

The rewards for victory are the giving of eternal life, a new name or identity, and a rulership in heaven. After looking at all of these rewards, it would seem that God is not so worried about outward appearance but, rather, where our heart is. Each reward stems from character. Eternal life comes when we realize our failures and accept God’s grace. Our new identity in Christ comes from the relationship we have built with Him. Finally, our rulership in heaven hearkens back to our identity, for our identity in Christ is one of sonship.

“The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are God’s children. Now if we are children, then we are heirs—heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings in order that we may also share in his glory” (Rom. 8:16, 17, NIV). We are heirs of God. By overcoming through Christ’s power, we are given the right to rule with God, the right to sit on His throne.

While that is a wonderful promise, it also comes with great responsibility. Earthly princes and princesses go to great lengths to learn about governing their countries so they can be the best rulers possible. They learn from their parents’ successes and failures, but we have a perfect Father. He is the ultimate model of a king. By building a close relationship with Him, we can learn how to be just like Him and how to be a true heir of the kingdom.

**React**

`1. How does the knowledge of your place as an heir affect your self-worth?`

`2. Should your place as an heir change how you live your life? If so, how?`

<sup>* James Strong, Strong’s Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible (Abington Press, 1890), Greek Lexicon G3528.</sup>

_Marissa Carlson, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_