---
title:  Jesus as Our Example
date:   18/04/2018
---

**How-to**: Rev. 1:18; 21:6

It’s all about Jesus! From the beginning to the end, the Bible reveals who Jesus really is. In the book of Revelation, a beautiful picture is painted of Him and all the good He is, has done, and will do at the end of time.

An important part of following Christ is becoming more like Him. It sounds quite impossible to be perfect as Christ was. But if we search the Scriptures to see the type of image Jesus had, we will see that it is quite doable. Here are a few steps:

Live faithfully. Throughout the Bible, God is called faithful (Deut. 7:9; Heb. 10:23, for example). We must also live faithfully. Meaning, if we take after the image of Christ, we, too, have to be faithful—faithful to the commandments and faithful to loving and honoring God.

It’s all about Jesus!

Be alive in Christ! This means, wake up! Enjoy the blessings that Christ gives daily. Embrace the grace and mercy God shows you. Take in the precious moments that Christ shares with you—whether it is the sunlight that hits your face as you drive to work, the rain that pounds on your window in the evening, or even the silent comfort in your heart when you are dealing with an inner struggle. Be alive in Christ. Revelation 1:18 reminds us that though Christ died, He also rose from the grave and is alive. Therefore, just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we, too, may have a new life (Rom. 6:4). Let’s remember to live our lives in Christ and be alive.

Share what God has given you. Not only has He given you life, but He has also given you salvation. He gave the Bible so that you can read about Him and learn about all the good things He has done. He has given you your own testimony. We are “God’s handiwork” and made “to do good works” (Eph. 2:10, NIV). We may not be able to give eternal life, but we can be the planters of seeds for those who need to be watered and given the good news that there is something much greater than this life.

**React**

`1. Why is it important for you to be alive in Christ, especially at the end of time?`

`2. What holds you back from being wholeheartedly committed to living a life for Christ?`

`3. What is the biggest challenge to being a planter of seeds?`

_Ysabella Paredes, Antioch, California, USA_