---
title:  What’s in It for Me?
date:   19/04/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 3:21

When we look at Revelation, we see Jesus in several ways. We see Him as the Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the End, the King on the throne and the Lamb that was slain, the Faithful Witness, and so much more. What we often do not immediately see is Jesus the Motivator. In Revelation 3:14–21, Jesus describes the church of Laodicea, the lukewarm church and the last of the seven churches. He describes it as “neither cold nor hot” and “wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked” (verses 15, 17). But then Jesus tells the church that to those who overcome their wretched state and repent, He will give the right to sit with Him in His throne (verse 21). That’s quite an honor!

He will give the right to sit with Him in His throne.

But why does Jesus need to give us this motivation? Isn’t just being with Him in heaven enough? I often find that I am unmotivated to do something as simple as smiling at someone and telling them “good morning.” If I cannot even do a simple task, how can I be trusted to motivate myself to get out of my miserable state?

Jesus does not motivate with fear. His motivation comes through positive promises to make us more than we are. However, one of the best characteristics of Jesus is His willingness to show us both sides of the coin. He shows us clearly how the wicked end up, then motivates us to join Him through the promises that He gives.

One would think that following Jesus and getting out of our wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked state would be motivation enough. Our problem is that we don’t know what we are. We say to ourselves, “I am rich, have become wealthy, and have need of nothing.” But Jesus takes us from where we are, shows us our dirty selves, and says, “Even though you think you’re OK, you’re not. I can help you.” Then, He gives us the promise that we can sit next to Him on His throne. That makes for pretty good motivation.

**React**

`1. If Jesus did not offer us motivation, how many of us would follow Him simply because we love Him?`

`2. If Jesus offered us motivation, but we got to heaven and He did not give us the opportunity to sit on His throne with Him, would you still serve Him?`

_Renae S. Cross, Tolland, Connecticut, USA_