---
title:  Revelation of a Personal God
date:   20/04/2018
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 1:1–8, 18

**Conclude**

When studying prophecy and Revelation, it is easy to get lost in the formalities. Revelation 1:1–8 gives us a glimpse of what it truly is about: a personal, faithful God. Revelation proclaims, “I am he that liveth” (verse 18), and “Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood” (verse 5). The God of the universe is alive, and He loves us. What better news than that of salvation through the Father! Exploring biblical prophecy challenges us to delve deeper into the truth. As seekers of truth, our duty is to seek the face of the living God and accept the gift of eternity He so lovingly washes over us.

**Consider**

- Writing down questions that you would like to ask the apostles or Jesus Himself. Can those questions be answered with further study of Scripture?
- Using your favorite art medium (watercolor, typography, etc.) to create a visual reminder of your favorite passage, such as, “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End.”
- Comparing and contrasting different versions of the key texts from each day. Compare the language and specific words that have been translated and interpreted differently. Try using the New InternationalVersion, The Message, the King James Version, and the English Standard Version.
- Taking a walk in nature, exploring your personal surroundings, and taking time to experience the little things.
- Interacting with some friends whom you might not talk religion with, exchanging viewpoints, making connections, and keeping an open mind.

**Connect**

1. Mark 13:7; Revelation 21:4–6.
2. Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, chapter 24, “The Alpha and the Omega”; chapter 42, “The Revelation of God.”
3. Max Lucado, When Christ Comes (Thomas Nelson, 2001).

_Hannah Ashburn, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_