---
title:  More than Just a Theory
date:   28/10/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 12:7–11**

**More than Just a Theory**

The subject of the great controversy between Christ and Satan forms the metanarrative of the whole Bible. Understanding that there is a battle between good and evil that started not at the beginning of this world but in heaven provides us with a broader view of the pain, sadness, challenges, and problems that we face every day. The great controversy narrative provides some backdrop to those unexplained events in our lives. We find this struggle between good and evil revealed throughout the Bible and see it unfolding throughout human history. Soon after the era of the early Christian church, we see paganism and Christianity entwining in a series of compromises that led to the active suppression of the Bible during the Dark Ages.

The Reformation began to peel back layers of darkness and superstition through the influence of men like John Wycliffe, John Huss, Jerome, Martin Luther, and John Wesley. Other groups of believers such as the Waldenses and the Anabaptists advocated key biblical teachings and suffered severe persecution for it. This thread of history with these various historical episodes was distilled into one succinct theme in the late 1850s when God gave Ellen White a vision that would eventually result in the book titled The Great Controversy.

The theme of the great controversy is the lens through which we view and understand all biblical truth. Stephen Hawking, the remarkable Cambridge physicist, wrote that should scientists discover the long-sought “theory of everything” to explain the numerous mechanisms of the universe, “we should know the mind of God” (A Brief History of Time [1998]). As Adventist theologian Herbert Douglas wrote in response, “Seventh-day Adventists have been given that[—]a perspective which provides a ‘theory of everything.’ It introduces us to the ‘mind of God.’ We didn’t discover it; it was given to us. We call it the Great Controversy Theme” (“The Great Controversy Theme: What it Means to Adventists,” in Ministry Magazine [2000], 5, 6).

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 12:7–11 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `