---
title:  Under Severe Attack
date:   29/10/2023
---

#### inGest

God gave Ellen White her vision on the great controversy, which lasted two hours, in Lovett’s Grove, Ohio during a child’s funeral service. The following day, while returning home by train with her husband, Ellen White felt the presence of an unseen passenger beside them. She could tell this passenger was determined that the truth about himself would not get out. That same day, the Whites stopped at a friend’s house in Jackson, Michigan to break up the journey. Only a few minutes into the visit, Ellen felt a strange, cold sensation prickle over her right side and heart and was struck with paralysis from a sudden stroke. Though only fifty miles from home, she was certain she wouldn’t see her children again. Those who were present prayed earnestly for her and she was able to continue her journey home to Battle Creek, Michigan, where she slowly wrote down what she had seen. She could write only a page at a time and had to rest for three days after each one, but she eventually finished the book.

In June of the same year, Ellen received clarification on the attack she experienced in Dan Palmer’s home. She wrote, “I was shown in vision that in the sudden attack at Jackson, Satan intended to take my life… but angels of God were sent to my rescue” (Life Sketches, [1915], 163). The first published account of that vision appeared in the 1858 edition of Spiritual Gifts. This was later enlarged to the four volumes of The Spirit of Prophecy, and then eventually to the five-part series The Conflict of the Ages, of which The Great Controversy is the last.

Revelation 12 gives an overview of this conflict, beginning with the war in heaven, covering the attempt to kill Jesus and the persecution against the church in the Middle Ages, and ending with the end-time war against the remnant church just prior to Jesus’ return. It shows clearly that Satan was cast down to earth from heaven and took a significant portion of the angels with him. No one wants their sins aired in public, and Satan is no exception. He does not want the truth about his fall and former glory known, which explains why he tried to kill Ellen White before she could set it in writing.

The first half of Revelation discusses the seven churches, seals, and trumpets while the second half primarily covers the final conflict in the great controversy. Chapter 12, which begins the second half of the book, gives a summary and background of this conflict. Verses 7–11 are particularly significant as they identify where the war started, the main players in the war, and how victory in the war is gained. The great controversy reveals that the only way to save sinners involves immense risk. Satan’s real motives and God’s true character won’t be fully evident to all until the very end, allowing for many misconceptions in the meantime. God is patient, however, and does not mind waiting, knowing He will be exonerated in the end.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Why do you think Satan tried to take Ellen White’s life after she received the vision on the great controversy? Why was this vision specifically targeted and not another one?`

`How can knowing that the controversy is much bigger than we are change our perspective on the issues and trials we may endure?`