---
title:  War in Heaven
date:   30/10/2023
---

### inTerpret

In Revelation 12:7, we are introduced to the two main players in this great war: Michael and the dragon. The dragon is identified two verses later; he is called the “serpent of old… the Devil and Satan.” Each of these titles describes a different aspect of his character and how he operates. Michael is the name of the great archangel at war with Satan (Jude 9). Archangel means the chief or prince of the angels, and Michael is sometimes called “the great prince” (Dan. 12:1). Knowing that Jesus will return to this earth with the voice of an archangel (John 5:28, 29; 1 Thess. 4:16), we can deduce that Michael is one of Jesus’ many titles—not because He’s an angel or a created being, but because He’s the leader of the angels.

The war in heaven started because Satan challenged the government, authority, and character of God. God obviously did not immediately annihilate His opposition, a fact that sheds light on His character—He is patient and slow to anger (Ps. 145:8). The war between Michael and the dragon intensified until there was no longer any place for Satan and his angels in heaven.

The Bible states that the devil and his angels were thrown down to planet earth (Rev. 12:9), effectively moving the controversy from heaven to earth as well. Satan then broadened his attacks to include God’s people and “accused them before our God day and night” (v. 10). The point of attack had moved from the Creator to His creation. Causing pain to someone’s children is often more painful than if the attack came directly to the parent, something we can assume Satan knew well.

Verse 11 outlines three things we can do to have victory in this ongoing cosmic battle: claim the blood of Jesus, remember the power of our testimonies, and be willing to lay down our lives if called to do so. Christ’s blood is the only thing that can truly atone for our sins. In claiming His blood, we claim His victory over death itself. Sharing what God has done for us helps us keep a mindset of gratefulness rather than bitterness and uplifts the church at large. We were not meant to live in isolation, so do not shy away from partaking in the encouraging act of sharing with your spiritual family. Being willing to give our lives for the gospel reveals a total commitment to God. When someone values a belief (in this instance, a belief in God) above life, there is nothing that can be done to deter them from that belief. Our life on earth is precious, but we must love our eternal lives more. We must be willing to give up the one to gain the other.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you think the angels would’ve responded if God had immediately annihilated Satan in response to his rebellion?`

`How can weak sinners like us hope for victory over Satan?`