---
title:  Taking the Risk to Love
date:   01/11/2023
---

### inVite

At the heart of the great controversy is the issue of God’s character. Satan challenged God’s government and made the accusation that God’s law cannot be kept. He claimed that God is unjust and unfair for establishing a law that no one can follow. Many wonder why God didn’t immediately destroy Satan when he rebelled in heaven. Wouldn’t God have been able to spare the universe from much pain and heartache by ending the source of the problem before others could be affected?

God desires love and worship, not power. Neither of these things can be forced. God can’t force us to love and worship Him any more than He can force Satan to do so. True love must be a choice, and choice does not come without risk. Anyone who has pursued someone else’s affections knows the fear of rejection, and nothing stings deeper than being rejected by someone you love. The two exist side by side; it’s impossible to provide the option to love without also providing the option to reject. Some people don’t pursue love because they fear rejection, but most people find that love is worth the risk. God knew the only way to have a universe where love is cultivated and can flourish is one in which His created beings have the freedom to choose.

If God created humans and angels without the ability to choose, evil might never have existed. After all, in a world without options, there’s no room to make the wrong choice. But such a scenario would also prevent love, because love requires freedom. God had to allow Satan’s rebellion to run its course so the angels and other created beings could see two things: first, that Satan’s plan was a ploy to exalt himself, and second, that though Satan’s departure from God seemed to be minor at first, the end result is the death of untold millions throughout history, including Jesus Christ Himself. Satan’s claims against God and His leadership seemed mild at first. God could not force Satan to obey Him, and God could not destroy him instantly because it would appear as though his accusations were right. Satan’s claims and the consequences of rejecting God and His rule had to play out so the unfallen universe could see the full results of rebellion.

Satan seeks to accuse God and His followers, but Revelation 12:11 points out that we can overcome by the blood of the Lamb. In living as a human and then dying on the cross, Jesus revealed the true love of God. The cross also exposed Satan’s cruel hatred for all to see. The contrast could not be greater! Jesus humbled Himself and was exalted by God (Phil. 2:5–11). Satan exalts himself and is humbled by God (Isaiah 14:12 – 14). Jesus sacrificed His life to pay the price the broken law demanded, thus demonstrating that the law can be followed and that God is a just and loving ruler. Today, if we place our trust in God, we can overcome Satan because Jesus already defeated him and shares the rewards of His victory with us.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How do you think God handles all the pain that He witnesses right now which is the result of the choice He gave us?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`