---
title:  Greed and Seeking Blessings
date:   06/01/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful” (Matt. 13:22, NKJV).

**Introduction**: 2 Cor. 8:1–7

The sermon was on greed, and the pastor needed an illustration. He found three volunteers who didn’t know from where their next dollar was coming.

The first volunteer was a middle school student who came from a poor home. The second was a high school student who needed money for his textbooks.

The third was a college student who needed money for a mission trip.

All of them had come to church seeking a blessing from God.

When the middle school student came forward, the pastor asked him whether he was really dirt poor. “Yes,” the student responded, “I am.” The pastor brought out ten one-dollar bills and counted them out.

“Would you be willing to put one of these in the offering plate before you leave?” he asked.

“Yes!” the middle school student responded. The pastor gave him the ten dollars.

Next the pastor turned to the high school student and asked, “I have here ten ten-dollar bills. Would you be willing to put one of these in the offering plate before you leave?”

“Of course,” the student replied.

The pastor gave him the money and then asked, “Have I been fair with these young people? Did I give them what I said I would?”

Then he turned to the young lady who was a college student. “I have here ten one hundred–dollar bills. Would you be willing to put one of these in the offering plate before you leave?”

She nodded as she said, “Yes. And I will use the money to go on a mission trip to Kenya.”

The pastor was surprised. She did not want the money to spend on herself. “How much will the mission trip cost?” he asked.

“Three thousand, five hundred dollars,” she responded.

“And how much do you have?”

“A hundred and fifty dollars.”

After thinking for a moment, the pastor said, “The church will pay the rest of the trip. You are going on the mission trip!”

The young lady was in tears! While we don’t know what the two young men used their money for, the young lady chose the ungreedy path and used her money to bless others. In our lesson this week we will focus on what God’s Word says we should do to avoid the “I see, I want, I take” trap.

_Hannah Eckright, Pendleton, South Carolina, USA_