---
title:  Filling Golden Baskets With Poisoned Fruit
date:   07/01/2018
---

**Evidence**: 1 Kings 21

Drowning in self-pity and selfishness, Ahab starved himself as if his life depended on the vineyard he unsuccessfully attempted to buy. As a child without a wanted toy, his broken pride led to a broken commandment. We could easily blame it all on the clever, pleasure-seeking wife of his, Jezebel, but who are these immature, raging human beings in the Bible anyway?

Israel’s history is a line of miraculous peaks and devastating valleys. By this time, the ever-remembered King David has been absent from the scene for about 135 years. Judah is a southern region ruled by Solomon’s descedents, while the northern part of Israel is being corrupted by wicked rulers. We take just a glance at the story just described and quickly understand why King Ahab is known as the most iniquitous ruler of all (1 Kings 16:30)! By marrying the daughter of a Phoenician king, he welcomed a ravaging disease of Baal worship and witchcraft. Soon temples were erected, holding orgies, human sacrifices, and other unspeakable customs of heathen worship. Under the vengeance of Jezebel and the seal of Ahab, God’s prophets were put through intense persecution.

The root of all evil is covetousness, the love of gaining more (1 Tim. 6:10). We do not love money because of its substance; if that were the case, we would love the tree from which it came. It is, rather, the power and control that money symbolizes. Look at the world around you, it runs on self-gratification. Whether we admit it or not, we struggle in the battle of self. The story of Naboth’s vineyard may seem dramatic and something we can’t relate to; we don’t often hear of murder cases over a glorified garden. Rather, we hear of empty tithe envelopes, weak church attendance, and unloving Christians. At times, we treasure the seen more highly than the unseen.

What are you holding back from God? What is your idol? Is it fashion statements, media, reputations, material items, relationships, time? God sees and knows all—and still loves us. We already have access to the treasury of God. May it never be said of us, “They missed out on the tree of life while picking the fruit of earthly vineyards.”

**React**

`How can we approach fellow Christians who are falling into the pit of earthly treasures and ungodly pleasure-seeking? How do we help them without harming them?`

_Bethany Sheridan, Clyde, North Carolina, USA_