---
title:  Wanting More
date:   08/01/2018
---

**Logos**: Gen. 3:1–6; Matt. 6:33; 2 Cor. 8:3; 2 Tim. 3:1–4

**A Legacy of Greed** (1 Kings 21)

Accounts of greed and selfishness are tragically woven throughout Bible history. King Ahab, a notoriously wicked king of Israel, sees a vineyard he wants, and when the owner won’t sell it, the king pitches a tantrum worthy of any two-year-old. He was the king of Israel. Imagine the wealth and riches that were already his. Yet he pouts like a spoiled child because he couldn’t have one particular vineyard. This isn’t the first biblical account of greed either. Satan was the first, wanting to exalt himself above God (Isa. 14:12–15). Then we have Eve in the Garden of Eden (Gen. 3:1–6) and Achan at Jericho (Josh. 7:20–22). In the New Testament, we have Judas (Matt. 26:14–16) and Ananias and Sapphira (Acts 5:1–10). Each story shares a common thread: greed; and each story shares a common conclusion: death.

**History Repeats Itself** (1 Cor. 10:13)

Unfortunately, the theme of falling into Satan’s “greed” trap continues all throughout the Bible—and beyond. The Bible says that in the last days of earth’s history, “people will love only themselves and money” (2 Tim. 3:2, CEV). We, today, are not immune to this temptation. If anything, our culture makes us more susceptible. The context may be new, but the story is the same. “You are tempted in the same way that everyone else is tempted” (1 Cor. 10:13, CEV). Praise the Lord that He always provides a way out of the devil’s traps!

**A Much Better Way** (2 Cor. 8:9)

“I want you to desire the best gifts. So I will show you a much better way” (1 Cor. 12:31, CEV). Showing us a better way was exactly what Jesus did when He came and lived on earth. He was willing to “give up all his riches” (2 Cor. 8:9, CEV) for us. What a contrast when compared to the lives of other Bible characters! Not only was Jesus willing to live in poverty, He demonstrated how to resist temptation. Jesus was in the wilderness, literally starving, when the devil came to tempt Him (Matt. 4:1–11). Today’s temptations are not so different. The devil has had a long time to study fallen human nature. Yet, God is so much stronger than the devil is. Jesus showed us exactly how to answer: “It is written.” Jesus knew the Scriptures by heart and spent much time in prayer. Only when we are connected to God, through our own Bible study and prayer, can we also find the “way of escape” (1 Cor. 10:13, NKJV) that God always provides us.

**Eternity Focused** (2 Cor. 4:18)

Sometimes, the temptations we face are not direct. In the parable of the sower (Matt. 13:3–7), the seeds that fell in with the thorns looked good at first. They weren’t snatched up off the path. They had good, rock-free soil. Like most weeds, the thorn bushes doubtlessly looked small and harmless at first, but they grew until they choked the good plants. When Jesus’ disciples asked what the story meant, He explained it clearly. The thorny soil represents the people who hear the message, “but they start worrying about the needs of this life and are fooled by the desire to get rich. So the message gets choked out, and they never produce anything” (Matt. 13:22, CEV). It is so easy to let the material things of life—how to pay for gas or tuition, the need for new shoes, or the wish for the latest, greatest phone—take over our lives.

Paul reminds us that “things that are not seen are eternal” (2 Cor. 4:18, CEV). Today, everyone is continuously bombarded with media and ads telling everyone that buying this one thing will make you happy or having some exciting experience will bring fulfillment. In a culture that looks everywhere except to God for joy and fulfillment, it is easy for spiritual things to be drowned out and forgotten. C. S. Lewis wrote, “Our whole education tends to fix our minds on this world.”1 God created us to appreciate beauty. However, Christians should remember that this world will never truly satisfy. “If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world.”2 We weren’t made to be fulfilled by the things of this world. Even having the best things or the most money will never truly make anyone satisfied. Christians must remember that what God has promised is so much better than anything this world has to offer.

**Giving Versus Getting** (2 Cor. 8:1–7)

God wants more for His children than simply escaping the temptations of materialism. Luke wrote, “Remember that our Lord Jesus said, ‘More blessings come from giving than from receiving’ ” (Acts 20:35, CEV). Greed and true generosity can’t coexist. In Macedonia, the churches were suffering. It would seem as though they would be the last ones willing to give. Yet, by God’s grace at work in their lives, not only did they give, they gave beyond their means. What an example of the power of God to change human hearts! As Jesus did, they present a powerful contrast to the many cautionary tales of greed. Only Christ at work in their hearts could have made such a difference, and only Christ in our hearts can weed out greed and replace it with true generosity.

**React**

`1. Which is more prevalent today—the love of money or the love of possessions? What other ways can greed or selfishness appear?`

`2. In what ways could God be calling you to give more generously?`

1. C. S. Lewis, Mere Christianity (New York: HarperCollins, 2015), p. 135.
2. Ibid., p. 136.

_Amanda Ernst, Hickory, North Carolina, USA_
