---
title:  What Would Jesus Do?
date:   10/01/2018
---

**How-to**: Isa. 56:11; 2 Cor. 8:9

How we act can tell us a little about what is in our hearts. According to John Whitmore, “You can live in a state of need, a state of greed or a state of freedom. These three levels are also called dependence, independence and interdependence.”*

Need (dependence) is not taking responsibility for our actions. A small child is an example of need. They need food and shelter and are dependent upon their parents for these needs. Judas Iscariot didn’t take responsibility for his actions when he betrayed Jesus (Matt. 26:14–16). Need in adults may be shown when a person speeds and then argues with the police officer about the ticket, or when a person does not budget their money but overspends.

Greed (independence) is wanting one’s own way, looking out for one’s own interests, or seeing one’s only duty as taking care of oneself and one’s family. Greed is wanting the latest fashion, the newest electronic device, or the most sale items. It is buying things to impress others. It is always trying to make a profit (Isa. 56:11). It is being attached to things instead of being attached to God. Freedom (interdependence) is looking out for personal interests as well as others’ interests. It is putting others before self. It is living the lifestyle of a faithful steward who is centered on serving God. Jesus gave us an example of this freedom. Even though He owned everything, “yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich” (2 Cor. 8:9).

Freedom is making all our decisions based on the question: What would Jesus do? When we are thinking about where to go on our day off, or how many extracurricular activities for which to sign our children up, or the cost of remodeling the living room, we should ask ourselves whether these plans are a part of God’s will for our lives.

**React**

`1. How can I change my life’s focus from being self-centered to being Godcentered?`

`2. Should a Christian let a greedy and persistent person “walk over them”? Describe how a Christian should react to a greedy person.`

<sup>*John Whitmore, Need, Greed, or Freedom: Business Changes and Personal Choices (London: Element Books, 1997), quoted in David Ducheyne, “Greedom or Freed (about Greed and Freedom),” Hrchitects.net (blog), October 16, 2011, http://www.hrchitects.net/freedom-greed/.</sup>

_Karen Pires, Pendleton, South Carolina, USA_