---
title:  Using Our Individual Fruit
date:   11/01/2018
---

**Opinion**: Gal. 5:22–25

From the time that most of us were quite young, we learned that the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Some of us can even list them without looking. With that said, what are these attributes? How do we get them? And how can we use them?

First, to receive these characteristics, we would do well to ask God to give us His Holy Spirit. That’s not a one-time petition. Every morning we need to ask Him to fill us with His Spirit. Initially, we may notice some or all our fruit is tiny and green. It’s not ripe. Rather than get discouraged, we need to keep praying for God to come into us.

Do we use this fruit to do God’s will, or are we utilized because we have these qualities? Like fruit, have you ever noticed that there are people who are naturally dripping with sweetness? It’s not necessarily the words they use. It’s how they use their words, along with their mannerisms and works. Have you ever compared your fruit with the fruit of others and gotten discouraged? There’s no need to become disheartened. You are growing an orchard. Given time and prayer, your fruit will become sweeter and develop to maturity. However, to do so, it must be used.

Use your love for God, the joy of Jesus, your peace with people, and your patience that you are developing as a good curator should. With God’s help, be kind to others and generous to your fellow man. With power from the Holy Spirit, be faithful to God and moved by a gentle spirit of self-control. Let’s think of edible fruit for a moment. There are more than 7,500 varieties of apples known today. Each has its particular qualities. Red Delicious apples are great eaten fresh but aren’t the greatest for making pies. On the other hand, a Granny Smith apple, while it’s a bit tart, makes a great apple pie. When making applesauce, a Fuji apple, which is great for eating raw, isn’t the apple of choice. A Gala would be much better.

We may not be the perfect fit in every situation, but God has given us fruit and gifts that are growing with the power of His Spirit and helping us to become His spiritual stewards where He needs and leads us.

**React**

`How are fruit and talents alike? How do they differ? Which seem difficult? What are ways you could deal with this dilemma?`

_Ron Reese, Clyde, North Carolina, USA_