---
title:  Limited Gratification Versus Lasting Fulfillment
date:   12/01/2018
---

**Exploration**: 1 John 2:15–17

**Conclude**
The world has fed our minds with the deceptive thought that what we have and how we look is not good enough and that there is always something or someone better, making us feel dissatisfied (John 6:35). All the things of this world are temporal, and going after these desires can give us only momentary happiness, which quickly dies out. Let us then set our minds on the things that are permanent and can never make us feel dissatisfied. “Since . . . you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on the things above, not on earthly things” (Col. 3:1, 2, NIV).

**Consider**

- Reading Joe Crews’s article “The Surrender of Self” at http://www.amazingfacts.org/media-library/book/e/76/t/the-surrender-of-self.
- Visiting an orphanage to see how the children live with basic supplies.
- Making a list of the desires of your heart and then examining which ones are temporal and which ones are permanent.
- Talking to someone homeless on the street and getting to know how they survive there.
- Listening to the hymn “Come, All Christians, Be Committed” (hymn no. 634 in the Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal) and reflecting on Christian stewardship.
- Memorizing Luke 12:15.
- Praying and asking God for conviction in this area and help in being an instrument that He can use to win souls for His kingdom.

**Connect**

1. 1 Timothy 6:7–10; Luke 12:13–21.
2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, chapter 2, “Among Thorns”; Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1, p. 172.

_Sharon Pallat, Bangalore, Karnataka, India_