---
title: 'Sabbath A Day Of Freedom'
date: 13/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Exodus 16:16–18; Deuteronomy 5:12–15; Exodus 20:8–11; Matthew 12:9–13; Leviticus 25:1–7.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then Jesus said to the Pharisees [Jewish religious group], ‘The Sabbath day was made to help people. People were not made to be ruled by the Sabbath’ ” (Mark 2:27, ERV).

**GOD MADE THE SABBATH**. It was the last thing God made when He made the earth in one week. Then God rested on the Sabbath day. When God rested on the Sabbath, He made rest an important part of our lives. The Sabbath shows us that God wants us to be close to Him and to each other. So, we should not be surprised to see that God includes the Sabbath in the Ten Commandments. God made the Sabbath an important part of His plan for the Hebrew people.

What do we think about the most when we think about the Sabbath? How we should keep it, right? We talk about the things we should and should not do. Yes, the Sabbath rules are important. But we also need to understand why the Sabbath is an important part of God’s plan for His people. The Sabbath shows us God’s grace. Grace is God’s loving-favor or His mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.

Jesus said that He made the 7th-day Sabbath for everyone. When we truly keep the Sabbath holy, we will be changed. The Sabbath will change us every day of the week. Then we will be a blessing to everyone around us. As Jesus showed us, the Sabbath can be a blessing to all people. 

_The Sabbath shows us that God wants us to be close to Him and to each other._