---
title:  PLENTY OF MANNA
date:   14/07/2019
---

God wanted to lift up His people after He freed them from slavery. He showed them a new and better way of life. He gave them laws for their new land. God gave His people a special gift to help teach them about this new way of life. This gift was named manna. It was a special food that appeared each morning on the ground near the Israelite’s camp. This manna miracle happened for 40 years!

`Read Exodus 16:16–18. Do you see in these verses that God provided enough manna for each person? What do these verses teach us about why we need to trust God to take care of us? What other lessons do these verses teach us?`

In 2 Corinthians 8:10–15, Paul talks about the manna story. He uses this story to show us how Christians should give gifts to other people. Look at what Paul says in verse 14 to the Christians in the church at Corinth. “At this time you have plenty. What you have can help others [other people] who are in need. Then later, when they have plenty, they can help you when you are in need. Then all [everything] will be equal [fair]” (2 Corinthians 8:14, ICB).

The lesson here for God’s people, and for us, is clear. God provided enough food for His people and for everything He made. So, we should take only what we need. Then we should share the leftovers we have with other people. God’s people also will learn to trust God to give them what they need the next day. When people do not have very much, they feel afraid. They worry each day about not having enough to eat tomorrow. But God used the manna as a word picture. It showed His people to trust God and not to worry about tomorrow. God wanted His people to trust Him about everything. He wanted His people to be generous and to give to other people.

But this miracle has another wonderful part. Every Friday, double manna fell on the ground. God told His people to collect the extra manna. He gave them the extra manna for the Sabbath. The extra manna shows God’s loving favor to His people. This miracle also shows God’s people that He will give them everything they need. This miracle teaches God’s people to trust Him. They do not need to worry about what they will eat tomorrow. Now they can enjoy their rest more fully on the Sabbath.

_Every Friday, double manna fell on the ground._