---
title: 'Two Reasons To Honor The Sabbath'
date: 15/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15. Both sets of verses talk about the fourth commandment. How do these verses help us understand the Sabbath better?`

God wants to be close to His people. That is why He asks us to remember the Sabbath day. It will help bring us close to God again. The Sabbath teaches us that God made us and saves us. We find these two Bible truths in the fourth commandment in Exodus 20:8–11 and in Deuteronomy 5:12–15.

The Hebrew people needed to remember that God made them. The Sabbath was an important way to teach them that truth. But the Hebrew people lived in Egypt for a very long time. In Egypt, there were many false gods. So, the people forgot about God. Then God gave His people a special gift to help them understand who He is. As we learned yesterday, God gave His people extra manna every Friday. This miracle was a strong example of God’s power. It also showed His people that the Sabbath is very special. 

The fourth commandment in Deuteronomy 5 tells us that God saved His people from the Egyptians and from slavery. God wanted His people to tell this story again and again. Every Sabbath helped them to remember that God freed them. Yes, God freed His people from the Egyptians. But He freed them from sin too.

So, we can see that God gave His people two reasons for worshiping Him on the Sabbath. (1) He made them. (2) He saved them. That is why God says, “ ‘ “I also gave them my Sabbaths. They were to be a sign [something special] between us. Then they [my people] would know that I am the Lord. I make them holy” ’ ” (Ezekiel 20:12, ICB). As we learned, God’s truth about the Sabbath was for everyone, not just the Israelites. God wanted to help His people make a new way of life. Then He wanted them to invite everyone else on the earth to come share in this new way of life too. He wanted His people to be kind to strangers. He wanted His people to share the blessings He gave them with everyone else. 

“ ‘That is why the Lord your God commands you to always make the Sabbath a special day’ ” (Deuteronomy 5:15, ERV). The Sabbath helps us to remember that God made us and saves us. The Sabbath helps us to grow closer to God and to the people around us. God is kind to us. So, we need to be kind to everyone too.

_The Sabbath helps us remember that God made us and saves us._