---
title: 'A Day Of Healing'
date: 17/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God wanted the Sabbath to be a day of rest for everyone, not only for the Jews. By the time Jesus came to this earth, the Jewish religious leaders had a different idea about the Sabbath. Those leaders believed that the Sabbath was not a day of freedom. They did not believe that the Sabbath showed that everyone was equal in God’s eyes. No, the religious leaders taught that the Sabbath was a day of strict rules. So, Jesus showed the Jews that the leaders’ teachings were false. 

How exactly did Jesus do that? He healed people on the Sabbath. He wanted to show something important about the Sabbath to the Jews. Often, when Jesus healed people on the Sabbath, He talked about why He did it. Many times, the Jewish religious leaders used Jesus’ words as a reason to kill Jesus. 

`Read Matthew 12:9–13; Mark 1:21–26; Mark 3:1–6; and John 9:1–16. These verses tell us stories about people that Jesus healed on the Sabbath. What important lesson do these stories teach us about the Sabbath?`

Jesus taught that the Sabbath is important. That is why we need to keep the Sabbath special. We must spend this time with God. Then we will grow closer to God. Our time with Him will make our families and our communities strong. The Sabbath should not be only about us. It is not a time to be selfish. Jesus said, “ ‘It is right to do good on the Sabbath day’ ” (Matthew 12:12, ERV). 

Many church members already do take care of other people. But many of us feel that we should do more. We know God cares about people who are hurting. So, we should care too. That is why the Sabbath is a good time to think about more ways to help other people. God already commands us not to work on this day. So, He gives us this special time to take care of other people. “The fourth commandment teaches us that God wants us to rest on the 7th day and worship Him. He commands us to stop doing business on this day. But God commands us to help other people. Our kind acts and works of love honor God’s holy day.”—Ellen G. White, Welfare [the help we give to people in need] Ministry [work done for God], page 77, adapted. 

`What do you do to help other people on the Sabbath?`

_“Our kind acts and works of love honor God’s holy day.”_