---
title: 'Sabbath Rest For The Land'
date: 18/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we learned already, the Sabbath was an important part of Israel’s new way of life. The Sabbath was not only a day at the end of every week. But the Sabbath also included a special rest each 7th year. Then every 50 years, there was a very special time of rest. This time of rest every 50 years is named the Year of Jubilee.

`Read the teachings in Leviticus 25:1–7. What is so special about these teachings? In what ways can you make these rules a part of your life and your work?`

During the Sabbath year, God’s people did not farm the land. They let the land “rest.” Many people today recognize this practice as a wise thing to do in farming. 

The 7th year also was important for slaves (read Exodus 21:1–11). Many Israelites owed a lot of money. They became slaves to pay back the money they owed. But in the 7th year, God commanded His people to free these slaves. What about the rest of the money the slaves owed? God said these freed slaves did not need to pay the rest of the money back at the end of the 7th year (read Deuteronomy 15:1–11). 

Remember the manna? We learned that God gave His people extra manna on Friday for the 7th-day Sabbath. Then God’s people did not need to collect manna on the 7th day. In the same way, God told His people not to plant crops during the 7th year. God promised to give His people extra food in the 6th year to help them live during the 7th year. Israel showed their trust in God by not planting crops in the 7th year. God asked His people to be kind to the slaves in the 7th year too. So, God commanded His people to free the slaves in the 7th year. He also told His people not to force the freed slaves to pay back the money they owed. God wanted His people to do these kind acts to show that they trusted in God’s power. He wanted them to trust Him to give them everything they needed. He ordered Israel not to force poor people to be their slaves until they paid back the money they owed.

The way we keep the Sabbath should change how we live our lives the other six days of the week. Put God’s kingdom first. God knows what you need. “ ‘Then he will give you all these other things you need’ ” (Matthew 6:33, ERV).

_God commanded His people to free the slaves in the 7th year._