---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   19/07/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pages 295–297, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “The Sabbath,” pages 281–289; in The Desire of Ages.

“Jesus said that when we help other people on the Sabbath, we do not break the law. It is good to help people on the Sabbath. We work together with God’s angels when we help suffering people on the Sabbath. God’s angels fly back and forth from heaven and earth all the time. They come to help people in need. ...

“Humans also have a special work to do on the Sabbath. We must take care of things that need our attention. We must care for the sick. We must take care of the needs of the poor. God will judge us guilty if we do not help suffering people on the Sabbath. . . . God made His holy rest day for humans. Our kind acts and works of mercy on the Sabbath show that we keep the Sabbath holy. God does not want anyone or anything He made to suffer an hour’s pain on the Sabbath or on any other day. So, we must do whatever we can on the Sabbath to help other people and animals. We must help end their suffering.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 206, 207, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. How has your experience with the Sabbath made your trust in God grow deeper? Have you had an experience in life where God gave you what you needed because you trusted in Him? If so, share your story with the class. What did your experience teach you?`

`2. We read about the Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15. What do you like best about the Sabbath?`

`3. What are some ways that your class can share the blessings of the Sabbath with your community?`

`4. What are some of the ways that the Sabbath changed your life? Are there other parts of your life that the Sabbath needs to change some more? If yes, what parts of your life need changing?`

_We work together with God’s angels when we help suffering people on the Sabbath._
