---
title:  The Second Coming of Our Lord Jesus
date:   23/06/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Isaiah 13:6, 9; Matthew 24:30, 31; Daniel 2:34, 35; 2 Thessalonians 1:7–10.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘When the Son of Man comes, everyone will see him. It will be like [the same as] lightning flashing in the sky that can be seen everywhere’ ” (Matthew 24:27, ERV).

Poet T.S. Eliot began a poem with this line: “In my beginning is my end.” His words show us a powerful truth. Endings can be found in beginnings. We see this truth in our name: Seventh-day Adventist. The “Seventh-day” part of our name reminds us of the Sabbath commandment of God’s law. Every week the Sabbath helps us remember that God made the heavens and the earth. The “Adventist” part of our name helps us remember Jesus’ soon coming in the future.

Our beginning started when God made this earth in six days. Our end will happen at Jesus’ Second Coming. At the Second Coming, Jesus will end sin on this earth. But the Second Coming also will be a new beginning for God’s saved people. Our beginning and our end may seem far apart. But the making of this earth and the Second Coming are really connected. The God who made us (John 1:1–3) is the same God who will come back for us. In a quick moment, “we will be changed as quickly as an eye blinks. This will happen when the last trumpet blows” (1 Corinthians 15:52, ERV). This week, we will talk about the last thing that will happen in this earth’s history: the Second Coming of our Lord Jesus.
