---
title:  The Second Coming
date:   24/06/2018
---

Many people think that the teaching about Jesus’ Second Coming is found only in the New Testament. That is not true. In fact, the Old Testament gives many hints about the Second Coming. So, the New Testament writers who talked about the Second Coming were not showing us a new truth about Jesus. Instead, these New Testament writers gave more information to us about a truth already shown in the Bible. But we could not truly value the promise of the Second Coming until now. Why? Because now we know the truth about Jesus’ coming back to life from the dead. This truth helps us understand more about the Second Coming.

`Read Isaiah 13:6, 9; Zechariah 14:9; and Daniel 12:1. What do these verses teach us about Jesus’ Second Coming?`

The Bible is clear: the Second Coming will be a day of ruin, sadness, and trouble for people who reject God. But the Second Coming also is a day of freedom from sin and from death for all of God’s people. Each loyal follower of God will have his or her name written in God’s Book of Life (read also Philippians 4:3; Revelation 3:5; Revelation 13:8). The Second Coming is a time when God will judge the earth. God will judge against evil people. But the Second Coming also is a time when God protects His loyal followers and rewards them. This same topic is found in the Old Testament. We read about one Old Testament example in Zephaniah. Zephaniah tells us that some people will experience God’s “ ‘burning anger’ ” against sin (Zephaniah 2:2, NLV). But God’s loyal followers will “obey his laws” (Zephaniah 2:3, ERV) and “have no pride” (NLV). Then they “will be safe when the Lord shows his anger” (ERV).

`Read Matthew 24:30, 31. How do these verses show us the big difference at the Second Coming between people who reject God and people who are saved?`

`As this earth’s history comes to an end, the side we are on will become very clear. What choices must we make today to make sure we are on the right side?`
