---
title:  Daniel and Jesus' Second Coming
date:   25/06/2018
---

Many Jews during Jesus’ time on earth waited for the Messiah. The Messiah was the Savior that God promised to send to save His people from their sins. But many Jews wanted the Messiah to save them from the Romans instead. The Jews hoped the Messiah would make Israel the top nation on the earth. But God had a different plan for His people at His first coming. God has something much better planned for His people for the Second Coming too.

Daniel 2 teaches us that the new earth that God promises us does not grow out of the old earth we live on now. The new earth will be a completely different earth.

Daniel 2 shows us a statue that is a word picture for the start and end of four worldwide kingdoms: Babylon, Media- Persia, Greece, and Rome. Then Rome breaks up into the countries that are now today’s Europe. But the statue that Nebuchadnezzar saw in his dream breaks in an amazing way. The amazing way the statue ends shows just how different the new world will be after Jesus comes back.

`Read Daniel 2:34, 35, 44, 45. What do these verses teach us about how this earth will end? How will the new earth be different from the old one?`

Daniel 2:34, 35, 44, and 45 clearly talk about what hap- pens when Jesus comes back. In Luke 20:17, 18, Jesus says He is the stone that Nebuchadnezzar saw in his dream. The stone is a word picture for what Jesus will do at the Second Coming. He will crush to powder everything that is left on this earth. Daniel used the Aramaic language to write Daniel 2. The Aramaic language in Daniel 2:35 says that the gold, the silver, the clay, the iron, and the brass were crushed first and broken into pieces. Then they “ ‘became like [the same as] dust on the grain-floor in the summer. The wind carried the dust away so nothing was to be found’ ” (Daniel 2:35, NLV). That means that nothing is left of this old earth after Jesus comes back.

The stone that destroys every last bit of this old earth “ ‘became a very large mountain and filled up the whole earth’ ” (Daniel 2:35, ERV). God will set up a new kingdom that “ ‘will never be destroyed’ ” (Daniel 2:44, NLV). So, one of two endings waits for every person who has ever lived on this planet. Which ending will you choose?
