---
title:  Our Future Hope
date:   26/06/2018
---

`Read Titus 2:13. What hope for the future do we have? Why is this hope so wonderful?`

The Bible teaches that God made us. This truth about our past gives us wonderful hope about our future too. We have so much to be hopeful about in the future. This hope is connected to the promise of Jesus’ Second Coming.

`Read 2 Timothy 4:6–8. What is Paul talking about in these verses? What is he putting his hope on?`

Paul knows he will die soon. But he trusts that God will give him the gift of everlasting life when Jesus comes back. Paul’s name for Jesus’ Second Coming is “that great [wonderful] day when He comes again” (2 Timothy 4:8, NLV). A crown waits for Paul. This crown “will show I [Paul] am right with God” (2 Timothy 4:8, ERV). Paul did not earn this crown because of anything special he did. He did not earn this crown because of helping people or good behavior. Instead, God gives Paul this crown because of Jesus’ holy life and obedience. Paul puts his trust in the things that Jesus has done for him. That is why Paul has hope. Paul knows his hope in the Second Coming is real. True, Paul waited in jail to die. But Paul knows that his future holds many good things and happiness. That is because Paul did not worry about the troubles he experienced at that time. He was looking forward to the hope he would have at the Second Coming.

`Maybe you are experiencing some difficult times, just the same as Paul did. How can you have the same hope Paul had? How can we learn to look beyond the bad things that are happening now? How can we learn to look to the hope we have in the Second Coming and all that this hope offers us?`
