---
title:  In The Clouds of Heaven
date:   27/06/2018
---

The Second Coming is very important to our beliefs as Seventh-day Adventist Christians. But not all Christians see the Second Coming as something that will really happen. They do not believe it means that Jesus Himself will come back in person. Some Christians believe that Jesus’ Second Coming happens when His Spirit is poured out on His church on earth. They believe that Jesus’ Second Coming happens when the lives of God’s people show they obey His law.

We can be thankful that this teaching is false. But what if it were true? Then we must ask ourselves another question: What real hope for the future would we really have if Jesus’ Second Coming were only a picture story?

Read the verses below about the Second Coming. What do these verses show us about Jesus’ Second Coming?

`Matthew 24:30`

`1 Thessalonians 4:16`

`Matthew 26:64`

`Revelation 1:7`

`2 Thessalonians 1:7–10`

“The sky seems to open and close. The glory from God’s throne seems to flash in the sky. The mountains shake the same way that grass shakes in the wind. Sharp rocks spill everywhere. There is a roar that sounds the same as a storm. The sea becomes rough and dangerous.An awful cry is heard. It sounds the same as a hurricane or the voice of demons who are out to destroy lives. The whole earth shakes and moves up and down the same way as the waves of the sea. The ground cracks open. The center of the earth itself seems to be falling apart. Mountains sink. Islands filled with people fall under water. The cities by beaches are swallowed up by the angry waters. These cities have become very evil. They are as evil as Sodom. God is judging Babylon the Powerful. God gives to her the cup filled with the wine of His burning anger.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 637; adapted. The Second Coming is so big that it ends life as we know it on earth. When that happens, everyone on earth will know it is happening.
