---
title:  The Living and the Dead
date:   28/06/2018
---

Jesus said: “ ‘I am the One Who raises the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies’ ” (John 11:25, NLV). Jesus did not expect people to accept His word without proof. Jesus showed everyone He could do exactly what He said. He woke Lazarus up from the dead. Lazarus had been dead long enough for his dead body to smell very bad (John 11:39).

People who believe in Jesus die. But Jesus says they will live again. Jesus will bring the dead back to life at His Second Coming. Our belief in Jesus’ power to wake up the dead makes our hope in the Second Coming our most important hope.

`What hope do we find in Romans 6:5; 1 Thessalonians 4:16; and 1 Corinthians 15:42–44, 53–55?`

The Second Coming promises us that all of Jesus’ loyal followers will experience the same thing Jesus experienced when He woke up from the dead. Jesus’ coming back to life from the dead gives us wonderful hope. What hope is that? If we die before Jesus’ Second Coming, then Jesus will wake us up from the dead when He comes back the second time.

`What happens to God’s loyal followers who are alive at Jesus’ Second Coming?`

Some of Jesus’ loyal followers will be alive when Jesus comes back at the Second Coming. These loyal followers will not die. But their bodies will be changed. They will get new bodies from Jesus. These bodies will be the same bodies that Jesus gives to His loyal followers who died. They all get new bodies when Jesus comes back. Their bodies will no longer be evil. Their bodies will never die. “Jesus’ loyal and obedient followers who are alive will be changed. This change will take place in a quick moment. This change will happen in a blink of an eye. God announces that His loyal and obedient followers are now clean, with no sin. Now God gives His people the gift of everlasting life. God’s people who were alive when Jesus came back now rise in the air. They are joined by God’s people whom Jesus woke up from the dead. Together, they meet Jesus in the air.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 645; adapted.
