---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   29/06/2018
---

Jesus’ Second Coming is not the end to the story about human sin and suffering on this earth. But the Second Coming is the most exciting and interesting part of human history. The Second Coming is the most important hope a Christian can have. Without this hope, what good is it to believe in anything? Without our hope in the Second Coming, human history goes on and on and ends only in death. But we have this wonderful hope in the Second Coming instead. The Bible tells us about this hope again and again. We have hope in the Second Coming because Jesus paid for our sins with His life (Mark 10:45). Jesus is coming back to get what He paid for: us. The stars in the heavens do not tell us about the Second Coming. The birds singing in the trees do not announce the Second Coming either. Stars and birds might show us something good. But they do not teach us that one day Jesus will come back. At that time, God’s loyal followers who have died will wake up. They wake up when the last horn sounds. The dead will wake up “never to die again. Then the rest of us who are alive will be changed” (1 Corinthians 15:52, NLV). Then we will look up and “ ‘see the Son of Man sitting at the right side of the Powerful One. And you will see the Son of Man coming on clouds in the sky’ ” (Mark 14:62, ICB). We know these things will happen because the Bible tells us they will happen. We trust in the promises of the Bible.

**Discussion questions**

`1. What would it mean if the Second Coming was not real and it only meant that Christians obeyed God’s law fully instead? Christians obeying God’s law fully would be wonderful to see, right? But in the end, why does that idea give us no hope?`

`2. Right now, many people accept the idea that all life came from nothing. Why is this a silly idea? Why do you think people say that this idea is really true? Why do people believe in it? Why does believing that God made all things make a lot more sense?`

`3. What thing in this life or on this earth would you be willing to give up your everlasting life for? Nothing, right? How can we make sure that nothing in our lives stops us from accepting God’s gift to save us?`
