---
title:  We Work Out What God Works In
date:  25/01/2026
---

Having just presented Jesus as the perfect example of humility and obedience to God’s will, Paul now turns to the Philippians themselves. He affirms their obedience to the Lord after they received the gospel message (see Acts 16:13–15, 32, 33) and urges them to continue in that obedience.

Having presented the example of Christ’s life and the Cross as the way of salvation, Paul now focuses more directly on how this all works in practice.

`Read Philippians 2:12, 13. What does Paul mean by saying, “Work out your own salvation”? How would you describe the relation between faith and works?`

In these two verses, Paul does not present a different gospel from what he outlines in Romans and in his other epistles. We can be sure his message here agrees with the gospel of justification by faith, which he also preached in Philippi and other places. But it’s also important to consider all the Bible says on a given topic, especially on the topic of salvation, which can be so misunderstood.

`Read Romans 3:23, 24; Romans 5:8; and Ephesians 2:8–10. What do these passages teach about salvation?`

Without question, salvation is God’s work, and we can take absolutely no credit for it ourselves. Even faith itself is a gift, encouraged through the work of the Holy Spirit. Our own works cannot save us; however, through the new birth, God re-creates us spiritually, enabling us to do good works. God’s Spirit works in us, empowering our will to choose the right, to resist temptation, and to make right choices.

Thus, we work out what God works in, “with fear and trembling” (Phil. 2:12). Does that mean we should be afraid of God’s judgment on our often feeble efforts to obey? Of course not. This phrase refers to sensing God’s presence (see Ps. 2:11) and our need to obey Him.

`In what ways have you experienced Christ working in you? How, though, does your fallen nature fight against what God is doing in you, and how can you resist that pull?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

While Jesus, our Intercessor, pleads for us in heaven, the Holy Spirit works in us, to will and to do of His good pleasure. All heaven is interested in the salvation of the soul. Then what reason have we to doubt that the Lord will and does help us? We who teach the people must ourselves have a vital connection with God. In Spirit and Word we should be to the people as a wellspring, because Christ is in us a well of water springing up unto everlasting life. Sorrow and pain may test our patience and our faith; but the brightness of the presence of the Unseen is with us, and we must hide self behind Jesus.\
Talk courage to the church; lift them up to God in prayer. Tell them that when they feel that they have sinned, and cannot pray, it is then the time to pray. Many feel humiliated at their failures, that they have been overcome by the enemy in the place of overcoming. Worldliness, selfishness, and carnality have weakened them, and they think it is no use to approach unto God; but this thought is one of the enemy’s suggestions. Ashamed they may be, and deeply humbled; but they must pray and believe. As they confess their sins, He who is faithful and just will forgive them their sins, and cleanse them from all unrighteousness (see 1 John 1:9). Though the mind may wander in prayer, be not discouraged, bring it back to the throne, and do not leave the mercy seat until you have the victory.\
Are you to think your victory will be testified by strong emotion? No; “this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith” (1 John 5:4). The Lord knows your desire; by faith keep close to Him, and expect to receive the Holy Spirit.\
The office of the Holy Spirit is to control all our spiritual exercises. The Father has given His Son for us that through the Son the Holy Spirit might come to us, and lead us unto the Father. Through divine agency, we have the spirit of intercession, whereby we may plead with God, as a man pleadeth with his friend.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 351.

Christ has made it possible for every member of the human family to resist temptation. All who would live godly lives may overcome as Christ overcame.\
To make God’s grace our own, we must act our part. The Lord does not propose to perform for us either the willing or the doing. His grace is given to work in us to will and to do, but never as a substitute for our effort. Our souls are to be aroused to cooperate. The Holy Spirit works in us, that we may work out our own salvation. . . . Fine mental qualities and a high tone of moral character are not the result of accident. God gives opportunities; success depends upon the use made of them. The openings of Providence must be quickly discerned and eagerly entered. There are many who might become mighty men, if, like Daniel, they would depend upon God for grace to be overcomers, and for strength and efficiency to do their work.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 111.