---
title:  Light in a Dark World
date:  26/01/2026
---

In Philippians 2:14, Paul urges the Philippians to “do all things without complaining and disputing” (NKJV). The challenges to church unity are so serious that it cannot be maintained without significant effort on our part. Unity within the church is a by-product of our union with Christ and obedience to His Word. And it’s vital to our witness, as Paul proceeds to point out, calling us to “shine as lights in the world” (Phil. 2:15).

On a moonless night, away from the glare of cities and street lights, more stars are visible, and they seem to shine much more brightly. It’s the contrast that makes the difference. The blacker the sky, the more clearly the stars stand out. It’s the same with our witness. The greater the moral darkness around us, the starker the contrast between the lives of God’s true followers and that of worldlings. How important it is, then, not to let the artificial lights of worldly ideas, pressures, and practices cause our witness to fade into the background or to disappear entirely.

`Read Philippians 2:15, 16. How does Paul describe what we, as children of God, are to be and to do?`

“Blameless” means “faultless, without reproach.” It is used especially of Job and his blameless character (see Job 1:1, 8, NKJV; Job 2:3, NKJV; see also Job 11:4; Job 33:9). The Greek word translated “harmless” literally means “unmixed, pure.” Jesus, in view of the vicious attacks that His witnesses are likely to face, encourages us to be “harmless as doves” (Matt. 10:16). Paul similarly urges us to be “simple concerning evil” (Rom. 16:19, NKJV). Our modern media channels are not known for pure, uplifting, and inspiring content. In times like these, David’s practice is a great rule for us today: “I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes” (Ps. 101:3).

We should never fear being different—our faith should increasingly set us apart. The goal is to “shine as lights in the world” (Phil. 2:15). The only way to do that is to reject conformity to this world (Rom. 12:2) by “holding fast the word of life” (Phil. 2:16, NKJV). Our choices determine whether we have lived with “the day of Christ” in view or have “run in vain” (Phil. 2:16, NKJV; compare 1 Cor. 9:24–27).

`If there are areas of your life that you would consider “worldly” (and there probably are), how can you be cleansed from them?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We are to reflect the character of Jesus. Everywhere, whether in the church, at our homes, or in social intercourse with our neighbors, we should let the lovely image of Jesus appear. This we cannot do unless we are filled with His fullness. If we would become better acquainted with Jesus, we should love Him for His goodness and excellence and we should desire to become so assimilated to His divine character that all would know that we had been with Jesus, and learned of Him.\
It is by carrying out in our lives the pure principles of the gospel of Christ that we honor and glorify our Father, who is in heaven. When we are doing this, we are reflecting Heaven-given light upon the dark world around us. Sinners will be constrained to confess that we are not the children of darkness, but the children of light. How shall they know this? By the fruits we bear. Men may have their names upon the church book; but that does not make them children of light. They may hold honorable positions and receive the praise of men; but that does not make them children of light. . . . There must be a deep work of grace—the love of God in the heart, and this love is expressed by obedience.\
It is Christ dwelling in the soul that gives us spiritual power, and makes us channels of light. The more light we have, the more we can impart to others around us. The more closely we live to Jesus, the clearer views shall we have of His loveliness. As we behold Him in His purity, we discern more clearly our own faults of character. We yearn after Him, and for that fullness that is in Him, and that shines out in the perfection of His heavenly character; and by beholding we become changed into His image. . . .\
Everyday we are sowing some kind of seed. If we sow the seeds of unbelief, we shall reap unbelief; if we sow pride, we shall reap pride; if we sow stubbornness, we shall reap stubbornness, “for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.” . . .\
Our hearts may be filled with all the fullness of God; but there is something for us to do. We must not pet our faults and sins, but put them away, and make haste to set our hearts in order. When this is done, let us take the key of faith, and unlock the storehouse of God’s rich blessings. . . . There is an infinite fullness to draw from; and we have the promise of our divine Lord, “According to your faith be it unto you.” We may win the crown of life, a place at God’s right hand, and as we enter the pearly gates, hear the words, sweeter than any music, “Well done, good and faithful servant: . . . enter thou into the joy of thy lord” (Matthew 25:23).—Lift Him Up, p. 266.