---
title:  A Living Sacrifice
date:  27/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 2:17; 2 Timothy 4:6; Romans 12:1, 2; and 1 Corinthians 11:1. What is Paul saying in these passages?`

Paul has already expressed a surprisingly ambivalent view toward whether he lives or dies in service to Christ (Phil. 1:20–23). Now he suggests the very real possibility of “being poured out as a drink offering” (Phil. 2:17, NKJV). This imagery is based on the ancient practice of libations, which involved pouring out a liquid (such as oil, wine, or water) as an offering to God (see, for example, Gen. 35:14, Exod. 29:40, 2 Sam. 23:15–17). The apparent “waste” of a valuable liquid in an act of devotion may remind us of Mary’s act of anointing Jesus’ head and feet with the “very costly oil of spikenard” (Mark 14:3–9, NKJV; John 12:3, NKJV). While not a drink offering per se, it clearly represented an enormous sacrifice that fittingly illustrated the infinite sacrifice of Christ for our salvation.

Should Paul be executed for his work of spreading the gospel, he would rejoice because his life was being “poured out” as an offering to God. Because libations in the Hebrew Bible generally do not stand alone but accompany a sacrifice (see Num. 15:1–10, Num. 28:1–15), Paul would consider the giving of his life as the fitting complement to the “sacrifice and service” of believers in Philippi, who, through faith, have chosen to devote their lives to God as a “living sacrifice” (Rom. 12:1).

The early Christians, including those in Philippi (Phil. 1:27–29), were active in sharing their faith. They went spreading the gospel from house to house (Acts 5:42). They opened their homes for the study of the Scriptures (Acts 12:12; 1 Cor. 16:19; Col. 4:15; Philem. 1, 2), and were able to give reasons from the Scriptures for what they believed (Acts 17:11, Acts 18:26, 1 Pet. 3:15). Our Adventist pioneers did the same. Rather than relying on pastors to spread the message to their neighbors, they shared their faith, gave Bible studies, and prepared people so they would be ready for baptism when the minister returned.

In short, at great personal sacrifice to themselves, that is, as a “living sacrifice,” they worked to spread the gospel. Should we do any less?

`Reflect on what it would mean for your life to be a “living sacrifice.” How much do you sacrifice for the kingdom of God, and what does your answer tell you about yourself?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord has been calling the attention of His people to health reform. This is one of the great branches of the work of preparation for the coming of the Son of man. John the Baptist went forth in the spirit and power of Elijah to prepare the way of the Lord. . . .\
John separated himself from friends and from the luxuries of life. The simplicity of his dress, a garment woven of camel’s hair, was a standing rebuke to the extravagance and display of the Jewish priests, and of the people generally. His diet, purely vegetable, of locusts and wild honey, was a rebuke to the indulgence of appetite and the gluttony that everywhere prevailed. . . . Those who are to prepare the way for the second coming of Christ are represented by faithful Elijah, as John came in the spirit of Elijah to prepare the way for Christ’s first advent. The great subject of reform is to be agitated. . . . Temperance in all things is to be connected with the message, to turn the people of God from their idolatry, their gluttony, and their extravagance in dress and other things.\
The self-denial, humility, and temperance required of the righteous, whom God especially leads and blesses, is to be presented to the people in contrast to the extravagant, health-destroying habits of those who live in this degenerate age. . . . There is nowhere to be found so great a cause of physical and moral degeneracy as a neglect of this important subject. Those who indulge appetite and passion, and close their eyes to the light for fear they will see sinful indulgences which they are unwilling to forsake, are guilty before God. Whoever turns from the light in one instance hardens his heart to disregard the light upon other matters. Whoever violates moral obligations in the matter of eating and dressing prepares the way to violate the claims of God in regard to eternal interests. Our bodies are not our own. God has claims upon us to take care of the habitation He has given us, that we may present our bodies to Him a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable.—Conflict and Courage, p. 273.

If it were possible for us to be admitted into heaven as we are, how many of us would be able to look upon God? How many of us have on the wedding-garment? How many of us are without spot or wrinkle or any such thing? How many of us are worthy to receive the crown of life? . . . Position does not make the man. It is Christ formed within that makes a man worthy of receiving the crown of life, that fadeth not away.\
I was pointed to the remnant on the earth. The angel said to them, “Will ye shun the seven last plagues? . . . If so, ye must die that ye may live. Get ready, get ready, get ready. Ye must have a greater preparation than ye now have. . . . Sacrifice all to God. Lay all upon His altar—self, property, and all, a living sacrifice. It will take all to enter glory.”\
Christ is coming with power and great glory. He is coming with His own glory and with the glory of the Father. . . . While the wicked flee from His presence, Christ’s followers will rejoice. . . . To His faithful followers Christ has been a daily companion and familiar friend. They have lived in close contact, in constant communion with God. Upon them the glory of the Lord has risen. . . . Now they rejoice in the undimmed rays of the brightness and glory of the King in His majesty. They are prepared for the communion of heaven; for they have heaven in their hearts.\
If you are right with God today, you are ready if Christ should come today.—Maranatha, p. 98.