---
title:  Proven Character
date:  28/01/2026
---

Timothy’s role as a co-sender of this epistle has already been mentioned (Phil. 1:1). Now Paul begins to detail how valuable Timothy is as one of his coworkers. He is described as an evangelist (2 Tim. 4:5) whom Paul had sent to Macedonia (1 Thess. 3:2; compare Acts 18:5, Acts 19:22) and, on several occasions, to Corinth (1 Cor. 4:17, 1 Cor. 16:10). Previously he had worked with Paul and Silas in Corinth (1 Thess. 1:1, 2 Thess. 1:1) and later in Ephesus (1 Tim. 1:2, 3; compare Acts 19:22). Paul describes Timothy as being “like-minded” (Phil. 2:20, NKJV). The Greek word (lit. “equal in soul”) suggests he was like Paul in many ways, including his commitment to Christ, his energetic efforts to spread the gospel, and his concern for the Philippians specifically.

`Why do you think Paul speaks so positively and at such length about Timothy here (see Phil. 2:19–23)? What else does Paul say about him (see 1 Cor. 4:17, 2 Tim. 1:5)?`

Another quality of Timothy’s mentioned by Paul is his “proven charac­ter” (Phil. 2:22, NKJV). The Greek word describes a person who has been thoroughly tested by trials (Rom. 5:4) and whose character and service has proved to be genuine (2 Cor. 2:9, 2 Cor. 9:13). Paul knows this to be true of Timothy because he has seen it demonstrated through the many occasions that they worked alongside each other in spreading the gospel.

It is the difficult experiences of life that test our mettle and demonstrate who we are on the inside. Ellen G. White puts it this way: “Life is disciplinary. . . . There will be provocations to test the temper; and it is by meeting these in a right spirit that the Christian graces are developed. If injuries and insults are meekly borne, if insulting words are responded to by gentle answers, and oppressive acts by kindness, this is evidence that the Spirit of Christ dwells in the heart.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 344. She goes on to say that if “the hardships and annoyances that we are called to bear” are “well endured, they develop the Christlike in the character and distinguish the Christian from the worldling.”—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 344.

`Think about the provocations, hardships, and annoyances you have faced recently. Have these been “meekly borne” and “well endured”? What can you do to enable these experiences to help make you more disciplined?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul loved Timothy, his “own son in the faith” (1 Timothy 1:2). The great apostle often drew the younger disciple out, questioning him in regard to Scripture history, and as they traveled from place to place, he carefully taught him how to do successful work.\
The affection between Paul and Timothy began with Timothy’s conversion; and the tie had strengthened as they had shared the hopes, the perils, and the toils of missionary life, till they seemed to be as one. The disparity in their ages and the difference in their characters made their love for each other more earnest. The ardent, zealous, indomitable spirit of Paul found repose and comfort in the mild, yielding, retiring disposition of Timothy. The faithful ministration and tender love of this tried companion had brightened many a dark hour in the apostle’s life. . . . All that a son could be to a loved and honored father, the youthful Timothy was to the tried and lonely Paul.\
Paul loved Timothy because Timothy loved God. His intelligent knowledge of experimental piety and of the truth gave him distinction and influence. The piety and influence of his home life was not of a cheap order, but pure, sensible, and uncorrupted by false sentiments. . . . The Word of God was the rule which guided Timothy. . . . Impressions of the highest possible order were kept before his mind. His home instructors cooperated with God in educating this young man to bear the burdens that were to come upon him at an early age.\
In his work, Timothy constantly sought Paul’s advice and instruction. He did not move from impulse, but exercised consideration and calm thought. . . . The Holy Spirit found in him one who could be molded and fashioned as a temple for the indwelling of the divine Presence.\
As the lessons of the Bible are wrought into the daily life, they have a deep and lasting influence upon the character. These lessons Timothy learned and practiced.—Conflict and Courage, p. 346.

We see the advantage that Timothy had in a correct example of piety and true godliness. Religion was the atmosphere of his home. The manifest spiritual power of the piety in the home kept him pure in speech, and free from all corrupting sentiments.\
God had commanded the Hebrews to teach their children His requirements and to make them acquainted with all His dealings with their fathers. This was one of the special duties of every parent—one that was not to be delegated to another. In the place of stranger lips the loving hearts of the father and mother were to give instruction to their children. Thoughts of God were to be associated with all the events of daily life. The mighty works of God in the deliverance of His people and the promises of the Redeemer to come were to be often recounted in the homes of Israel. . . . The great truths of God’s providence and of the future life were impressed on the young mind. It was trained to see God alike in the scenes of nature and the words of revelation. The stars of heaven, the trees and flowers of the field, the lofty mountains, the rippling brooks—all spoke of the Creator. The solemn service of sacrifice and worship at the sanctuary and the utterances of the prophets were a revelation of God.—Conflict and Courage, p. 345.