---
title:  “Hold Such Men in Esteem”
date:  29/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 2:25–30. How does Paul describe Epaphroditus? What specific attitudes and actions of this Christian worker reveal his character?`

Epaphroditus is mentioned only in this letter, but we learn quite a bit about him from the few brief mentions that appear. Judging from his name (which refers to the cult of Aphrodite), he was converted from a pagan background. Calling him a “fellow worker” suggests he was active in ministry, perhaps working alongside Paul in Philippi. Being a “fellow soldier” (compare Phil. 1:27) probably refers to conflict Epaphroditus faced in spreading the gospel, willing even to risk his life (Phil. 2:30).

As the “messenger” (Greek: _apostolos_) appointed by the church in Philippi, Epaphroditus is sent to minister to Paul in prison and to care for any other needs he may have (Phil. 2:25). He was the one the Philippians entrusted with their financial gifts for Paul (Phil. 4:18). These offerings were critically important because whatever food, clothing, bedding, or other necessities Roman prisoners might need would have to be purchased at their own expense or brought to them by family and friends (compare Acts 24:23). Near the end of his second imprisonment in Rome, Paul asked Timothy to “do your utmost to come before winter” and “bring the cloak” left at Troas (2 Tim. 4:21, 13, NKJV). Paul would apparently need this thick woolen overcoat in his cold stone cell. It was also Epaphroditus who was entrusted with carrying this epistle back to Philippi (see Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 479).

Perhaps because of the problems in Philippi _(see Lesson 4)_, Paul “considered it necessary” to send Epaphroditus back sooner than anticipated, and thus urges the Philippians to “welcome him in the Lord with great joy” (Phil. 2:29, NIV). Paul wants to make sure they do not worry about his own situation in jail. He also underscores that Epaphroditus is the kind of person Christians are to hold in high esteem, not because of their wealth or social status but because of their sacrificial spirit in following the example of Jesus (Phil. 2:6–11, 29, 30; compare Luke 22:25–27). The Greek word for esteem or honor appears only a few times in the New Testament: for the centurion's servant who was “valued highly” (Luke 7:2, NRSV), for those who are shown honor by their placement at a feast (Luke 14:8), and of Jesus as the “precious” cornerstone (1 Pet. 2:4, 6). For Epaphroditus to be included in that group, he must have been, indeed, a faithful man.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the epistle to the Hebrews is pointed out the singlehearted purpose that should characterize the Christian’s race for eternal life. . . . Envy, malice, evil thinking, evilspeaking, covetousness—these are weights that the Christian must lay aside if he would run successfully the race for immortality. Every habit or practice that leads into sin and brings dishonor upon Christ must be put away, whatever the sacrifice. . . . “Know ye not,” Paul asked, “that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize?” However eagerly and earnestly the runners might strive, the prize could be awarded to but one. . . .\
Such is not the case in the Christian warfare. Not one who complies with the conditions will be disappointed at the end of the race. . . . The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. The weakest saint, as well as the strongest, may wear the crown of immortal glory. . . .\
That he might not run uncertainly or at random in the Christian race, Paul subjected himself to severe training. The words, “I keep under my body,” literally mean to beat back by severe discipline the desires, impulses, and passions. . . .\
It was this singlehearted purpose to win the race for eternal life that Paul longed to see revealed in the lives of the Corinthian believers. He knew that in order to reach Christ’s ideal for them, they had before them a life struggle from which there would be no release. He entreated them to strive lawfully, day by day seeking for piety and moral excellence. He pleaded with them to lay aside every weight and to press forward to the goal of perfection in Christ.\
In view of the issue at stake, nothing is small that will help or hinder. Every act casts its weight into the scale that determines life’s victory or defeat. And the reward given to those who win will be in proportion to the energy and earnestness with which they have striven.—Conflict and Courage, p, 351.

God has enjoined the duty upon His human agents to communicate the character of God, testifying to His grace, His wisdom, and His benevolence, by manifesting His refined, tender, merciful love. . . .\
Our work is to restore the moral image of God in man through the abundant grace given us of God by Jesus Christ.... Oh, how much we need to know Jesus and our heavenly Father that we may represent Him in character!\
The soul that is transformed by the grace of Christ will admire His divine character. . . . The less we see to esteem in ourselves, the more we shall see to esteem in the infinite purity and loveliness of our Saviour. A view of our sinfulness drives us to Him who can pardon; and when the soul, realizing its helplessness, reaches out after Christ, He will reveal Himself in power. The more our sense of need drives us to Him and to the Word of God, the more exalted views we shall have of His character, and the more fully we shall reflect His image.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 229.