---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/01/2026
---

“The one who stands nearest to Christ will be he who on earth has drunk most deeply of the spirit of His self-sacrificing love,—love that ‘vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, . . . seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil’ (1 Corinthians 13:4, 5),—love that moves the disciple, as it moved our Lord, to give all, to live and labor and sacrifice, even unto death, for the saving of humanity. This spirit was made manifest in the life of Paul. He said, ‘For to me to live is Christ;’ for his life revealed Christ to men; ‘and to die is gain,’—gain to Christ; death itself would make manifest the power of His grace, and gather souls to Him. ‘Christ shall be magnified in my body,’ he said, ‘whether it be by life or by death.’ Philippians 1:21, 20.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 549.

“The time is not far distant when the test will come to every soul. The mark of the beast will be urged upon us. Those who have step by step yielded to worldly demands and conformed to worldly customs will not find it a hard matter to yield to the powers that be, rather than subject themselves to derision, insult, threatened imprisonment, and death. . . .

“When multitudes of false brethren are distinguished from the true, then the hidden ones will be revealed to view, and with hosannas range under the banner of Christ. Those who have been timid and self-distrustful will declare themselves openly for Christ and His truth. The most weak and hesitating in the church will be as David—willing to do and dare. The deeper the night for God’s people, the more brilliant the stars. Satan will sorely harass the faithful; but, in the name of Jesus, they will come off more than conquerors.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, pp. 81, 82.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about the warning in the above quote about those who “step by step yielded to worldly demands and conformed to worldly customs.” What might that include? Discuss how this might apply not only to individuals but to the church as a whole.`

`God says, “ ‘Those who honor Me I will honor’ ” (1 Sam. 2:30, NKJV). In what ways do we honor God? Is it the same as to “give glory to Him” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV)? Why, or why not?`

`How can we understand the concept of working out our own salvation without falling into the trap of legalism?`