---
title:  Assurance of Salvation
date:   25/04/2018
---

Some Seventh-day Adventists wonder if they will be saved. They lack assurance and long to know their future, in terms of eternal life. They work hard to be good enough and yet know that they come short. They look within and find little to encourage them in their journey through life.

When we see the immense gap between the character of Jesus and ourselves or when we read a text such as “strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it” (Matt. 7:14), who of us doesn’t have moments when we wonder if we are going to make it?

To be prepared for the end time, people must have assurance of salvation in the present. They must revel in the reality of salvation in order to face the future unafraid. Yet, as we have seen, all the living Persons of the Godhead are at work to save us. Thus, we can and should live with the assurance of our salvation.

Read the following texts. What hope and assurances come from them regarding salvation and what God has done for us and promises to do?

`Ps. 91:15, 16`

`Joel 2:31, 32`

`John 10:28`

`Rom. 10:9-13`

`1 John 5:11-13`

We are called, even commanded, to live holy lives, but these lives are the result of having been saved by Christ, not the means of achieving that salvation. Though we must be faithful, even unto death, we must always lean on the gift as our only hope of salvation. God’s people will be found faithful and obedient in the last days, a faithfulness and obedience that arises from the assurance of what Christ has done for them.
