---
title:  What Is Truth?
date:   15/12/2024
---

In John 18:28–32, we read a few short verses about Jesus’ trial. This part is short because John is more interested in telling us what happens next between Jesus and Pilate, the governor.

`Read the story about Pilate and Jesus in John 18:33–38. What did Pilate and Jesus talk about?`

The governor asks Jesus if he is the king of the Jews (John 18:33). This question is the first time in the Book of John that Jesus is named a king. Jesus asks Pilate if he is asking this question because he believes Jesus really is a king. Or is Pilate asking because other people are saying Jesus is a king? Jesus is really asking Pilate if he understands who He is. The reader already knows that Jesus is the King. Will the governor understand that, too?

Pilate answers Jesus’ question with his own questions: “Pilate said, ‘Do you think I am a Jew? Your own people and religious leaders have handed You over to me. What have You done?’ ” (John 18:35, NLV). Do you see how Pilate doesn’t answer Jesus’ question? Pilate’s words show his decision not to accept the truth about Jesus.

Jesus answers that His kingdom isn’t on this earth (John 18:36). Pilate then understands that Jesus is announcing that He is a king (John 18:37). Jesus then explains why He was born. Jesus came to this earth to announce Bible truth. Every person who accepts the truth will hear and obey Jesus’ teachings (John 18:37).

Pilate then asks Jesus, “ ‘What is truth?’ ” (John 18:38, ERV). But Pilate doesn’t wait for the answer. He goes outside to try to save Jesus from the crowd.

Truth is an important topic in the Book of John. Jesus is the everlasting Word (John 1:1–5). So, Jesus is the Light and the Truth (John 1:14). Mercy and truth come to us from Jesus (John 1:17). John the Baptist preached the truth about Jesus (John 5:33). Jesus announced that His Father is “true” (John 7:28). Jesus heard the truth from His Father (John 8:40). Jesus is “the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6, ERV). God’s Word, the Bible, is “truth” (John 17:17, NLV). Pilate missed his chance to know the truth. Why? Pilate disliked the Jews. He made bad decisions in the past. He also felt pressured to do what the Jewish leaders wanted.