---
title:  See? Here Is The Man!
date:   16/12/2024
---

`How did Pilate try to get the people to ask him to release Jesus? Read John 18:38–19:5 for the answer.`

Pilate didn’t wait for Jesus to answer his question about the truth. Pilate went out to convince the people to ask him to make Jesus free. But when Pilate didn’t let Jesus go free, he lost control of the trial. The Jewish leaders saw Pilate’s mistake. They understood that they could use the crowd to control Pilate.

During the Passover, the governor often let a prisoner go free. Passover is a feast that celebrates the time when God made the Israelites free from slavery in Egypt. Pilate asks the people if they want him to let Jesus go. Pilate is surprised when the people ask him to release an evil man named Barabbas, and not Jesus, who is innocent.

At this time, the Roman soldiers make fun of Jesus. The soldiers put a crown of thorns on His head. They put purple clothes on Him. They name Him a king. Roman soldiers did these things when they wanted to honor the King of Rome. But the soldiers do these things to shame Jesus.

Pilate believes Jesus is innocent. Pilate wants to release Jesus. So, Pilate asks for the people’s help. Pilate brings Jesus out to them. Jesus wears a crown of thorns and purple clothes. Pilate asks the people to look at Jesus: “ ‘See! This is the Man!’ ” (John 19:5, NLV). These words help us remember John the Baptist’s words about Jesus: “ ‘See! The Lamb of God Who takes away [removes] the sin of the world [the people on the earth]!’ ” (John 1:29, NLV). The Roman governor, and not the Jews, dresses Jesus in royal clothes and shows Him to the people as a King.

In John 19:6–16, the crowd shouts for Jesus’ death because He says He is the Son of God. When Pilate hears this reason, he becomes very afraid. Then Pilate tries ­harder to save Jesus and release Him. But the Jewish ­leaders say that if Pilate releases Jesus, he will not honor the Roman King. Pilate is loyal to the Roman King. But people will doubt his loyalty if he releases someone who says he also is a king in the Roman kingdom. The Jewish ­leaders say that the King of Rome is their only king. The Jewish leaders hated the Romans. But they hated Jesus more. The Jews hated Jesus more than they loved their country. So, the Jews were willing to serve the hated Romans to use them to get rid of Jesus.