---
title:  It Is Finished
date:   17/12/2024
---

As John 19:17–22 shows, Pilate wrote a sign and put it on the cross. The sign was written in the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages. The sign said, “ ‘JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS’ ” (John 19:19, ICB). The Jewish leaders wanted Pilate to change what he wrote. Pilate refused. The sign stayed on the cross. The sign preached the truth about Jesus: the King of kings is nailed to the cross. He is on the cross of shame the same as a king sits on a throne of glory because His death will save sinners. But first, Jesus, their King, the King of the Jews, must hang on the cross, the same as a criminal.

“God caused Pilate to write the sign and put it on the cross above the head of Jesus. God used this sign to cause people to think about what they saw and study the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 745, adapted.

`Read the story in John 19:25–27. What did Jesus say to His mother and John?`

John, the beloved follower, and Mary, the mother of Jesus, stood with a few others in front of Jesus’ cross. Many years before, Simeon told Mary about this future experience when she and Joseph brought Baby Jesus to the temple for a blessing (compare with Luke 2:34, 35). Now as Jesus dies on the cross, He speaks to His mother and John. “Jesus saw his mother. He also saw the follower he loved very much standing there. He said to his mother, ‘Dear woman, here is your son.’ Then he said to the follower, ‘Here is your mother.’ So after that, this follower took Jesus’ mother to live in his home” (John 19:26, 27, ERV).

`Read Jesus’ final words in John 19:28–30. Jesus says, “ ‘It is finished’ ” (verse 30). What is Jesus talking about?`

The word written as “finished” comes from the Greek word “teleō.” This word means “to finish” or “to complete.” This word tells us that everything the Bible promised about Jesus was happening and coming true.

When Jesus says, “ ‘It is finished’ ” (John 19:30, ERV), He is completing or finishing the work that the Father gave Him to do.