---
title:  The Empty Grave
date:   18/12/2024
---

`Read John 20:1–7. What do these verses show us? Why is this Bible truth so important to us, as Christians?`

Jesus died late on a Friday afternoon and woke up from the dead early on Sunday. The Sabbath was near when Jesus was buried (John 19:42). So, Jesus’ followers buried Him in a hurry and didn’t finish doing everything that needed to be done. Jesus’ followers loved Him. But they didn’t want to break the Sabbath. So, they kept the Sabbath day and didn’t go back to Jesus’ grave (compare with Mark 16:1; Luke 23:56). After the Sabbath, some women brought some perfume to the grave on Sunday morning. The women were surprised when they saw the stone was rolled away and the grave was empty.

Mary Magdalene was a woman who came early to the grave. She ran to tell Peter and John what she saw. The two men ran to the grave. John ran past Peter and arrived first. John stooped down and looked inside the grave. He saw the cloths that the followers wrapped Jesus in. But John didn’t go inside the grave.

Peter went inside. He saw the cloths lying there. He also saw the face cloth that the followers put on Jesus’ head. But the face cloth wasn’t lying with the rest of the grave cloths. The face cloth was folded up and separated from the rest of the grave cloths.

`What did the folded up face cloth mean? What was so special about the way that it was lying separate from the other grave cloths? Read John 20:8–10 for the answers.`

After Peter entered the grave, John entered, too. John 20:8 says that John went in, saw, and believed. Why did John believe that Jesus woke up from the dead when he saw the grave cloths lying there and the face cloth folded up and lying separate? To answer this question, we must think about why the grave was empty. Did grave robbers steal Jesus’ body? This explanation doesn’t work for three reasons. (1) Matthew tells us that soldiers guarded the grave (Matthew 27:62–66). So, no one could easily steal Jesus’ body. (2) Grave robbers steal treasures, not rotting bodies. (3) Grave robbers are in a hurry. They don’t fold grave clothes. No wonder, then, that when John saw the face cloth folded, he believed that Jesus woke up from the dead.