---
title:  Jesus And Mary
date:   19/12/2024
---

`Read the story in John 20:11–13. What happened in these verses that shows why Mary Magdalene didn’t understand what Jesus’ empty grave meant?`

In John 20:2, Mary tells Peter and John about the empty grave. Peter and John run to the grave. After Peter and John inspect the grave, they leave. But Mary comes back to the grave. She cries and stays. For sure, Mary must have cried a lot during the last few days. Now, she finds the Savior’s grave empty. Mary stooped down and looked inside.

To Mary’s surprise, two angels were in the grave. They sat where Jesus’ body used to be. “The angels asked Mary, ‘Woman, why are you crying?’ ” (John 20:13, ERV). Mary’s heart is hurting. She is very sad. She tells the angels that people have removed the body of her Lord. She doesn’t know where they put Him.

`What changed everything for Mary? Read John 20:14–18 for the answer.`

Tears filled Mary’s eyes. She turned and saw someone standing behind her. The Stranger asks, “ ‘Woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for?’ ” (John 20:15, ERV). Mary thinks she is talking with the gardener. So, she asks him to help her find Jesus’ body.

The Stranger says one word, “ ‘Mary’ ” (John 20:16, ERV). This one word changes Mary’s life and the future of all Christians. When Mary hears her name, she understands that Jesus woke up from the dead and is talking to her! Mary must have felt so happy! Jesus tells her not to hold on to Him, for He must go to heaven. Jesus gives Mary a job. She must go tell His followers that Jesus is “ ‘going back to my Father and your Father. I am going back to my God and your God’ ” (John 20:17, ERV). Mary did the work Jesus gave her to do. She told the followers that she saw the Lord. Mary also told them the rest of the things that Jesus shared with her (John 20:18).

`Read what Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 15:12–20. As Paul says, what good is our Christian faith if Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead?`