---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/12/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘It Is Finished,’ ” pages 758–764; “ ‘The Lord Is Risen,’ ” pages 779–787; and “ ‘Why Weepest Thou?’ ” pages 788–794, in The Desire of Ages. See also, Clifford Goldstein, Risen: Finding Hope in the Empty Tomb (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 2020).

“Pilate wished to release Jesus. But he saw that he couldn’t do this and keep his own honor. Pilate didn’t want to lose his power or control as governor. So, he permitted Jesus, who was innocent, to die. How many do the same thing that Pilate did when they want to escape loss or suffering? Duty tells us what we should do. But our selfish hearts tell us to do the wrong thing. When we start to do wrong things, we become a “slave” to evil. Then we can easily become guilty of all types of terrible crimes.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 738, adapted.

“Jesus didn’t give up His life until He did the work He came to do. With His final breath, Jesus cried out, ‘It is finished.’ John 19:30 [ERV]. Jesus won the war. As the winner, Jesus celebrated in heaven. The angels were filled with joy. Satan lost the fight. He [Satan] also knew he lost his kingdom on this earth.

“The angels and the people on other planets understood the meaning of Jesus’ cry, ‘It is finished.’ Jesus also said these words for them, and for us. Jesus’ words meant that His work to save humans was now completed. The angels and the people on other planets share with us in Jesus’ win.”—The Desire of Ages, page 758, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What decisions can you make to avoid making the mistake that Pilate made?`

`Why did Jesus need to die for us? Why did He need to be our Substitute? Why did Jesus need to die to save us? What Bible verses support your answer?`

`What happenings in history give powerful proof that Jesus woke up from the dead?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:12–20. How do these verses show that the dead sleep until the Second Coming?`