---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/09/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Anointing of David,” pp. 637–642, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

God’s plan for us may require that we do a lot of waiting, and this really can feel like a crucible. Learning patience during this time can happen as we focus on the person of God and trust that He is acting for us. There are many reasons for waiting, but all are concerned with the fulfillment of God’s plans for us and His kingdom. We can lose much if we rush ahead of God, but we can gain much by maintaining an attitude of trust and delight in Him.

The Lord weighs and measures every trial.

“I cannot read the purpose of God in my affliction, but He knows what is best, and I will commit my soul, body, and spirit to Him as unto my faithful Creator. ‘For I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day’ (2  Tim. 1:12). If we educated and trained our souls to have more faith, more love, greater patience, and a more perfect trust in our heavenly Father, I know we would have more peace and happiness day by day as we pass through the conflicts of this life.

“The Lord is not pleased to have us fret and worry ourselves out of the arms of Jesus. More is needed of the quiet waiting and watching combined. We think unless we have feeling that we are not in the right track, and we keep looking within for some sign befitting the occasion; but the reckoning is not of feeling but of faith.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, p. 242.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does it mean that Jesus “weighs and measures” every trial? How can knowing this help us while we wait?`

`Ask people in class to give personal testimonies as to what patient waiting is all about. What were their fears, their joys? How did they cope? What did they learn? What promises did they cling to?`

`What can you do as a church or a class to help others who are in the crucible as they await God’s timing for something?`

`What is the role of prayer in the development of patience? Are there others you can pray for so that the Spirit will develop patience in their lives?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Heavenly Places, “Graces to Cherish,” p. 244;<br/>
Testimonies for the Church, “Christian Forbearance,” vol. 5, pp. 331–336.<br/>