---
title:  Human Rights
date:   23/03/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 21**

**Human Rights**

While the First World War was absolutely devastating, World War II saw the widespread implementation of new weapons that were far more destructive than likely ever thought possible. The world discovered new levels of death, pain, and loss due to modern technology, which definitively amplified the consequences of humanity’s sinful nature. Technology advanced exponentially in the twentieth century, but humanity’s moral condition saw no improvement. Our immorality and arrogance have taken millions upon millions of lives, and lives continue to be taken even today in this supposedly advanced age.

The United Nations formed in 1945 to deescalate future conflicts and protect every human’s basic rights. Their “Universal Declaration of Human Rights,” passed in 1948 and posted on their website, says, “Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance” (Article 18). This milestone document has been translated into 514 languages and has inspired many countries and regions around the world to implement their own protections of liberty.

However, today, wars and military conflicts are putting more and more people at risk. The regulations protecting human rights, which include religious liberty, are suffering unexpected setbacks, and the world is suffering in sin and sorrow in more and more graphic ways.

Perhaps people living in the twenty-first century can recognize beyond any preceding generation that no human agency will deliver the freedom this world so desperately needs. Humanism will never succeed. This world needs a deliverance from above—which is what Adventism is all about! The word “advent” means “coming,” which is why Adventists chose that word to describe our faith in Christ’s soon return. Jesus’ name means “God saves”; even His name promises freedom. This week’s lesson will focus on the final liberation that God has promised to all His children.

### inScribe

Write out Revelation 21 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 1–8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._