---
title:  The Glorious Emancipation
date:   24/03/2024
---

### inGest

Our last few lessons have focused on the final battle between good and evil in this world as described in Revelation 13 and 14. When the crisis comes, everyone must choose between faithfulness to God at any cost and loyalty to human traditions. Those who faithfully obey God’s laws and maintain faith in Christ will become Satan’s targets (Rev. 12:17). God’s last-day people—those who refuse to renounce their allegiance to God—will be despised, slandered, abused, and punished with fines, penalties, and even death. Family, friends, coworkers, neighbors, and all organizations will use every resource at their disposal to convince or manipulate God’s faithful people into complying with man’s traditions (Mark 13:12, 13). Believers will be arrested, dragged before courts, and punished by civil authorities (v. 9). There will be no safe place outside of God’s care as nations unite in their hatred against God’s people (Matt. 24:9). Fanatical preachers, full of charisma and backed by supernatural signs and miracles, will intensify the crowds’ frenzy (vv. 11, 24). Believers will be stripped of every good thing this world has to offer. Deliverance will not come from any worldly source; our only hope will be in God Himself. As difficult as it can be, we can trust Him to follow through on His promises, and in His compassion and understanding. The final chapters of Revelation declare that God is coming to liberate His weary people. Chapters 15–20 depict the judgment and destruction of God’s enemies while chapters 21 and 22 focus on the glorious freedom God’s people will enjoy after they’ve been released from the bondage of this world.

One of the big reasons God judges the wicked in chapters 15–18 is to deliver His people. The seven last plagues (Rev. 16) will be His punishment for all who try to force His children to receive the mark of the beast (15:1, 2); they demonstrate that those who try to take freedom from God’s people will lose their own freedom (16:1, 2). As the plagues in Egypt (Exod. 7–12) were given to emancipate God’s people from slavery, so the plagues in Revelation will result in freeing God’s end-time people from oppression and persecution. God’s judgment against Babylon in chapters 17 and 18 serves to avenge the martyrs she has killed (Rev. 17:6; 18:20, 24) and end the spell that Babylon has cast over all the earth (18:23). God will prepare the lake of fire for those who work false miracles to deceive the world (19:20). His people will no longer suffer the reproach, fraudulent accusations, and anger of false religious teachers. His judgments will deliver them.

After the detailed description of God’s judgments against His people’s oppressors, Revelation 21 announces the relief, safety, and peace that God’s people finally find in His presence. Imagine it for a moment: no more tears, no more sorrow, no more death (v. 4)! This is a freedom worth living for, and one worth dying for.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Why is judgment against God’s enemies part of His people’s liberation?`

`How do the six preceding chapters add meaning to the liberation promised in Revelation 21?`