---
title:  Freedom to Love
date:   25/03/2024
---

### inTerpret

Is the freedom that God gives His people in heaven an absolute freedom? Is it a freedom without boundaries? Is it a freedom to do anything? Of course, we know the answer is no. Healthy families do not allow their members to do anything they please; they have structure and assign different responsibilities to different members to protect the safety and happiness of everyone involved. Relationships in heaven operate in a similar way; they’re governed by covenantal love, which includes responsibilities and boundaries.

God likens His people to a bride to illustrate the mutual respect and love intrinsic to our relationship with Him (Rev. 19:9; 21:2). Two people in love want nothing more than to live with the person they love forever. Marriage vows solidify the covenantal love that protects the future of that sacred union. God, too, wants us to live in His presence forever and is therefore preparing to share His home with us (John 14:2, 3). Marriage does not give a spouse the freedom to do whatever they want. They are not free to cheat on each other or spend all their partner’s money on themself. Spouses are not free to be gone all the time. Healthy marriages include mutual responsibilities and obligations. When spouses decide they have the freedom to do whatever they want, they doom the marriage. Despite all these boundaries, many feel that marriage opened the door to the best freedom they’ve ever discovered: the freedom to live with and have children with the person who they share a deep love with. When couples are in love, marriage means freedom, but when they aren’t, it means bondage. The same is true of heaven. For people who love God, heaven means freedom; for those who don’t, heaven would be bondage.

God’s law is written on every heart that chooses Him, and that reveals one of the most amazing things about Him: He does not force us to choose Him or worship Him. He writes His law on our hearts after we’ve made our choice. An angel could decide to rebel against Him at any time, yet no person or heavenly being will ever again choose to sin (Nah. 1:9; Rev. 21:27; 22:11). The redeemed have experienced firsthand the devastation caused by the lie that breaking God’s law brings freedom, and the angels have witnessed the results of redefining freedom as we see fit. This harrowing experience, played out on earth and witnessed by all creation, has irreversibly repudiated every one of Satan’s accusations that God is not just or that a better freedom exists. It has revealed, once and for all, that Satan’s initial lie, which revolved around the claim that God’s government is too restrictive, is just that: a lie. One could say the whole great controversy centers around the question of freedom. Does loving God and choosing to follow the Ten Commandments protect our freedom or destroy it? Each of us must answer that question for ourselves today. Our conclusion will determine both the destiny we want and the destiny we’ll be given.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How is God’s freedom, with all its boundaries, true freedom?`