---
title:  Freedom with Christ
date:   27/03/2024
---

### inVite

The sense of relief the redeemed feel when God delivers them from oppression is hardly a drop compared to the ocean of relief Jesus will feel when He finally brings His people home. The conflict will finally be over; the last stage will be complete. Reminiscent of the words He spoke on the cross, Jesus will exclaim, “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts” (Rev. 21:6). Jesus’ first desire is to give us the water of life. Jesus is still outward focused even though He’s in heaven. He rejoices that He has freed the world from every barrier that would prevent people from enjoying the everlasting water of life.

Jesus promises that “he who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son” (Rev. 21:7). The plan of salvation elevates the redeemed to the full status of sons and daughters of our heavenly King, giving us all the privileges of heavenly royalty. No one has better freedoms than the children of kings. Princes are exempt from the taxes commoners pay (Matt. 17:25, 26). Princesses have the royal treasury to cover expenses and they can access the throne. They have every physical thing they could ever want. If earthly royals enjoy these extraordinary privileges, imagine the freedoms given to the King of kings’ children (1 John 3:1, 2).

Jesus gave up His liberties. He left His throne and all its royal benefits to become a servant of other servants—the lowest of the low. He was arrested and abused, stripped naked and nailed to a cross like a common criminal. He became poor so we might be rich (2 Cor. 8:9). Think about that for a moment. There was nothing He did not sacrifice in His fight to free us from sin; He surrendered His freedom and His life for just the chance that we would accept His gift.

It’s important to understand that Jesus didn’t give His people freedom because we somehow earned or deserve it; it was a gift, totally free of charge, given out of His Divine grace. How do we respond to such an incredible display of love? It’s an important question, and Revelation 14:12 provides the answer: “keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.” It takes an inordinate amount of courage to do so when the current of the whole world runs in the opposite direction. God is looking for people who have the deep love, unshakable trust, and nerve to follow Him in the here and now when friends and family are running in the other direction. Nurturing a close relationship with Christ is the only way to develop the confidence in Him that empowers us to do things we never thought possible. May the Holy Spirit help us overcome cowardice and unbelief and fill us with the love and trust needed to be among those who keep God’s commandments and have the faith of Jesus. When Christ comes in the clouds of heaven (14:14), only then will we taste true freedom.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`How does the promise of being a child of God comfort you? How does it motivate you?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`