---
title:  Origins
date:  06/04/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Isaiah 14:12–17**

**Origins**

When strangers meet for the first time, one of the first questions asked is, “Where are you from?” If the conversation continues, the next question is often, “What do you do?” Eventually, the exchange may lead to sharing personal stories and backgrounds such as political beliefs or religious convictions—the things that drive one’s life-choices. People are generally interested in learning how others perceive the world and how they arrived at their worldviews.

What about the devil? Does he have an origin story worth knowing? The entertainment industry is not shy about creating movies, video games, comics, art, and music about him. He gets depicted in various ways. Whether as an attractive man, a comical horned being with a pitchfork, some half-man half-beast creature, or a creepy dark figure, there’s no lack of creative intellect being wasted in inventing all kinds of stories about him. At times he is portrayed as a misunderstood victim, and other times as the source of a dark power crucial for the “balance of the universe.” But is any of this accurate?

There are countless popular stories about the devil, but very few tell the truth about his origin, activities, and motivation. While it may not be the most uplifting topic to ponder, it’s vital to understand who God’s enemy is, where he’s from, why he chose to start a war with God, and what drives him to bring so much misery to this world.

This week we will study Lucifer’s fall. We will gain insights into his origins and see his reasons for starting the greatest controversy of all time. While Isaiah 14:12–17 will be our primary focus, the lesson will also draw from other key passages to provide a more complete picture.

#### inScribe

Write out Isaiah 14:12–17 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 12–14. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._