---
title:  Pride Comes Before the Fall
date:  07/04/2024
---

#### inGest

On January 26, 1972, Vesna Vulović was a flight attendant aboard Yugoslav Airlines Flight 367, scheduled to fly from Stockholm to Belgrade. It never reached its destination. During the flight, a bomb that was planted in the baggage compartment exploded, causing the plane to break apart at an altitude of 33,000 feet. Vulović, who was in the tail section of the plane, was still strapped to her seat when she fell to the ground. Her seat somehow detached from the rest of the debris and slowed her fall as she plummeted. She landed on a heavily wooded slope covered in deep snow and now holds the record for the highest fall any human has ever survived. Isaiah 14:12 introduces us to a being who, after bombshell accusations against God, experienced a much higher and more devastating fall than Ms. Vulović: “How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!”

Lucifer means “light bearer,” but the Bible gives this being many different titles and names such as Satan (Job 1:6), devil (Matt. 4:1), dragon (Rev. 12:3), and “the anointed cherub who covers” (Ezek. 28:14). Satan and devil are similar words that carry meanings of “accuser,” “slanderer,” or “adversary.” Lucifer was a created angel who was given some of the highest honors and greatest responsibilities in God’s government, and yet, this privileged angel somehow ended up as God’s adversary. Revelation 12:7–9 tells us that he instigated a rebellion, a war against God, and was consequently cast out of heaven with other angels who had committed to his cause. His ambitions were not small. He sought to dethrone God, his Creator (Isa. 14:13). He desired to take his seat above all of creation. He wished to “be like the Most High” (v. 14).

It’s difficult to understand how a “perfect” being (Ezek. 28:15) with no inherent sinful inclination, one who served in the holiest place of the universe—literally in God’s throne room—could come up with the desire to become God Himself. In the context of perfection, sin is irrational and absurd. Even so, one day, “iniquity was found in [him]” (Ezek. 28:15). Though it was a nonsensical choice, because of free will, Lucifer always had this option available, as all created beings do.

The implications of this foolish desire to usurp the throne are cataclysmic. God, through His omnipotence, is by definition the Personification and Provider of the laws that hold the universe together physically, metaphysically, and morally. Any hypothetical “replacement god” would need to inherently possess the ability to sustain and uphold reality and all existence in all dimensions. Not only could Lucifer never provide any of the “DNA” required to be God but he also abides by no laws. A universe centered in him would immediately collapse and cease to exist.

Journal:

`Why is sin irrational and unexplainable?`

`How have you rationalized your sins in the past?`