---
title:  Fallout
date:  08/04/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Isaiah describes the fall of the former light bearer, Lucifer, through a prophetic lamentation over the King of Babylon. The ultimate intentions of Satan were at first hidden in his heart, but it became increasingly evident that he was indeed staging a coup against God’s government (Isa. 14:13, 14). His rebellion of pride was fueled by a corruption of wisdom and love of self (Ezek. 28:17), as well as “by the abundance of [his]... trading” (v. 16), which in this context can be understood as slandering God’s character through lies. Scripture tells us that one-third of the angels joined the uprising (Rev. 12:4) and were eventually expelled from heaven (v. 8). Planet earth was dragged into this cosmic war when Satan successfully deceived Adam and Eve and used that victory over humanity as the pretext to claim rulership over this earth (see Job 1:6, 7). Only God could refute Satan’s assertions and claims.

The controversy between God and Satan continued to play out on the rebellious planet as God sought to win humanity back by teaching the truth and patiently displaying His love through His everlasting covenant. At the same time, He was also seeking to prove His integrity and trustworthiness to the unfallen angels, some of whom may have still had questions about Lucifer’s fall and his claims about God.

Fast forward a few thousand years to the culmination of God’s love in the form of Jesus, who took on human flesh to represent God to His created beings. God came as close to us as He possibly could. In the ultimate act of selflessness, Jesus gave His life on the cross for the salvation of all humanity and was resurrected, having regained rulership over this planet as the King of kings and placed God’s character on display in literally earth-shaking and undeniable terms, forever refuting Satan’s false claims. All doubts and questions about the purity of God’s heart, the authenticity of His love, and the integrity of His justice were settled at the cross. Satan was defeated at the cross. Anticipating His victory on the cross, Jesus exclaimed, “Now the ruler of this world will be cast out” (John 12:31). The cross stripped Satan of all legitimate claims to this world and guaranteed that Satan’s doom was sure. The blood of Jesus shed on the cross is our assurance that Satan will be finally destroyed.

Satan has been expelled from heaven, but has he been expelled from your life? or does he still have access? Maybe he used to be cast out but regained entrance through compromise. Why continue to host a defeated foe? Why not dethrone him and let Jesus, the true King of kings, take up residence in your heart instead, bringing in a reign of truth and love to your life?

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what way is pride the essence and root of all sin?`