---
title:  Crying for Satan
date:  10/04/2024
---

#### inVite

Most people have seen a movie or read a book in which a character unexpectedly dies. These often dramatic scenes typically include the heartbreak of a loved one who witnessed the death. In the agony of the moment, the person may exclaim, “How?!” or “Why?!”

In a similar expression of pain, Isaiah 14 is a prophetic song of lamentation. Its wording and structure suggest it’s a funeral song of sorts. The “how” cry in verse 12 describes the lament that takes place at someone’s death, and while the song ends with a victory for God and His people, the cry at the beginning has undertones of profound sadness. With a heavy heart, God calls out in verse 12, “How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are cut down to the ground” (emphasis added). God created all angels, including Lucifer. With love, He carefully crafted each detail of these incredible beings and gave them life. Lucifer was perfect and exceptionally beautiful (Ezek. 28:15–17). God picked a lovely and meaningful name for him, gifted him a great purpose as a light bearer, and gave him the honor of being extraordinarily close to Him as a covering cherub.

God is Father to the angels. His bond with them is closer than a human father’s with his children. If a child’s entire life were filled only with endless love, any father would be heartbroken to see that child turn away from him and rebel against him unprovoked. In the story of Absalom’s rebellion against his father David, we see a reflection of the kind of love God has for Lucifer-turned-Satan. Just as David cried out over Absalom’s death, “O my son Absalom—my son, my son Absalom—if only I had died in your place! O Absalom my son, my son!” (2 Sam. 18:33), so God is utterly heartbroken at the rebellion, fall, and final destruction of His creation, Satan.

God loves to the end. It is who He is. Jesus displayed God’s heart when He accepted, mentored, served, and loved Judas despite knowing that he would betray Him. Jesus showed divine compassion when He prayed from the cross for His torturers and mockers: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do” (Luke 23:34).

The overall chorus of Scripture portrays our God as a long-suffering and merciful God. We can confidently assume that in His interactions with Lucifer, He exercised abundant patience and compassion. It was certainly not pleasurable for God to expel Lucifer and the angels; nor will their execution at the end of time be pleasurable: “ ‘As I live,’ says the Lord God, ‘I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn, turn from your evil ways! For why should you die, O house of Israel?’ ” (Ezek. 33:11). In His dealings with Lucifer, we see that God exemplified the command He gave to us through Jesus to “love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you” (Matt. 5:44). What an incredible God we serve!

Journal:

`Meditate on Isaiah 14:12–17 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How has Jesus shown patience and compassion to you?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`