---
title:  Old Testament Faith
date:   22/07/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson: Galatians 3:1–14; Romans 1:2; Romans 4:3; Genesis 15:6.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Christ set us free from the curse of the law. He did it by becoming a curse for us. It is written, ‘Everyone who is hung on a pole is under God’s curse’ ” (Galatians 3:13, NIrV).

“A little boy made and painted a toy boat. But one day his beautiful boat was stolen. The boy was very upset. Soon after, he happened to pass a shop that sold used goods. He looked in the window and saw his boat. Happiness filled him. He ran inside and said to the shopkeeper, ‘That is my boat!’ ‘No,’ the shopkeeper said. ‘It is mine. I bought it.’ ‘Yes,’ the boy said, ‘but it is mine, for I made it.’ ‘Well,’ the shopkeeper said, ‘I will sell it back to you for two dollars.’Two dollars was a lot of money for a boy who did not have a penny. But he wanted the boat so badly. So he cut lawns. He did chores. And soon he had the money.

“The boy ran down to the shop and bought the boat. He took the boat up in his arms. He hugged and kissed it. He said, ‘You dear little boat. I love you. You are mine. You are mine twice. I made you. And now I have bought you.’

“The same is true with us.We are, in a way, twice the Lord’s. He made us. But we ended up in the devil’s secondhand shop. Then Jesus came. He bought us at a very high price. He did not pay silver or gold, but His precious blood. We are twice the Lord’s because first He created us and then He saved us.”—Adapted, William Moses Tidwell, Pointed Illustrations (Kansas City, MO: Beacon Hill Press, 1951), page 97.