---
title:  The foolish Galatians
date:   23/07/2017
---

_Galatians 3:1–5_

`Read Galatians 3:1–5. What is Paul saying to the Galatians? They started out right. They believed they were saved by faith alone. But then they made the mistake of believing they were saved by their works. In what way could we be in danger of falling into this same spiritual trap?`

In verse 1, Paul calls the Galatians “foolish” (NIrV). Many modern Bible translations have tried to explain exactly what Paul means by“foolish.”Theactual word Paul uses inGreek is anoetoi. It is even stronger than “foolish.” Anoetoi comes from the word in Greek for mind (nous). It means not using one’s mind to think something through carefully. So Paul accuses the Galatians of not thinking. But Paul does not stop there. He wonders if some magician has cast a spell on them! A spell is a word or words believed to have magic power. Paul’s choice of words here hints at the possibility that Satan may be the cause of how foolish the Galatians are being.

Paul is so confused about the Galatians’ fall into wrong beliefs because they knew the truth. They knew that being saved comes by faith in Jesus. The Cross is at the center of this truth. There is no way the Galatians could have missed this point. The word translated as “clearly showed” (NIrV) in Galatians 3:1 means “painted” in Greek. It also means “to put up a sign in a public place for people to see.” In Bible times, this word also was used to describe public announcements. So, Paul is saying that the Galatians have no excuse for falling away from the truth. For the gospel was at the center of Paul’s preaching. He had “painted” a picture of Christ on the cross so clearly in their mind’s eye (1 Corinthians 1:23; 1 Corinthians 2:2). But now they are turning away from it.

Paul then asks the Galatians some questions. How did they first become Christians? And why did God give them the gift of the Spirit? Did they do something to earn it? Of course not! Instead, God gave it to them because they believed what Christ did for them. So why did they now think they had to be saved by obeying the law?

`Do you ever find yourself thinking, I am a good Christian. I do not do this sin or that sin? And then somehow you find yourself thinking you are good enough to be saved. What is wrong with this way of thinking?`