---
title:  Grounded in the Bible
date:   24/07/2017
---

_Galatians 3:6–8_

So far, in his letter to the Galatians, Paul takes a strong stand against those who attack his gospel. He points to the agreement reached in Jerusalem with the apostles (Galatians 2:1–10).Apostles were the leaders of the church. Paul also points to the experience that the Galatians had in the truth (Galatians 3:1–5). Now in Galatians 3:6, Paul turns to the Old Testament for the final proof of what he says.

`Read Galatians 3:6–8. In these verses, Paul uses the word “Scripture” (NIrV). “Scripture” is another word for the Bible. So what part of the Bible does Paul mean when he uses the word “Scripture”? (Read also Romans 1:2; Romans 4:3; and Romans 9:17.)`

At the time Paul wrote his letter, there was no New Testament. So the Old Testament scriptures were very important to Paul’s teachings. He often quotes from the Old Testament scriptures. He does not think of them as “dead” writings. Instead, Paul sees them as the living Word of God. In 2 Timothy 3:16, Paul writes, “God has breathed life into all Scripture” (NIrV). The wording “God has breathed” comes from the Greek word theopneustos. The first part of the word (theo) means “God.” The second part of the word means “breathed.” So, this word tells us that the Bible is “inspired.” Inspired means “God-breathed,” or given by God. Paul uses the Bible to show that Jesus is the Savior (Romans 1:2). He uses the Bible to teach. And he uses it to prove the truth of his teachings.

It is hard to count how many times Paul quotes the Old Testament. But Bible quotes are found everywhere in his letters, except his two shortest: Titus and Philemon.

`Read Galatians 3:6–14. Which verses from the Old Testament does Paul quote? What does that tell us about how much power the Old Testament had to guide lives?`

`At times, do you think that one part of the Bible is more “God-breathed” than other parts? Read again what Paul wrote in 2 Timothy 3:16. What does this verse teach us about the danger of this kind of thinking?`