---
title:  Set free from sin and made Holy
date:   25/07/2017
---

_Galatians 3:6_

`In Galatians 3:6, Paul gives proof for his gospel by first turning to Abraham’s story. Why does Paul do this?`

Abraham was very important to the Jews. He was the father of the Jewish people. In Paul’s time, Jews looked to Abraham as the example of what a true Jew should be. Many Jews believed Abraham was right with God because he obeyed. After all, Abraham left his homeland and family for God. He accepted circumcision. Circumcision is the custom of cutting off the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy. And Abraham was even willing to put his own son to death at God’s command. What obedience!

Paul’s enemies pointed to Abraham as the reason that circumcision was needed in order to be saved. In his letter, Paul also points to Abraham. But Paul points to him as an example of why we are saved by faith alone.

`In Galatians 3:6, Paul quotes Genesis 15:6. What does the verse mean when it says Abraham’s faith was “credited [given] to him as righteousness [God’s power to set sinners free from guilt or sin]” (NIV)? Read also Romans 4:3–6, 8–11, 22–24.`

The word “credited” (NIV) is an idea taken from the business world. It can mean “to place something to one’s account.” Paul tells us that what is placed to our “account” is God’s holiness. It sets us free from guilt and sin. But what is the reason God credits us with His holy life? It cannot be because of obedience. Not even Abraham’s obedience was enough to make him holy. The Bible says that God credited holiness to Abraham because of his faith.

The Bible is clear. Abraham was not made right with God because he obeyed the law. Instead, Abraham’s obedience was a result of his being made right with God. So, Abraham did not do what he did to be made right with God. He did it because he already was right with God. In other words, being made right with God leads to obedience, not the other way around.

`You are not made right with God by anything you do. You are made right with God only by what Christ has done for you. Why is that truth such good news? How can you learn to trust in it no matter what happens?`