---
title:  The Gospel in the Old Testament
date:   26/07/2017
---

_Genesis 12:1–3_

In Galatians 3:8, Paul says that the gospel was preached to Abraham. And God was the one who preached it. But when did God preach the gospel to Abraham? To answer that question, Paul quotes Genesis 12:3. This verse is part of God’s agreement with Abraham in Genesis 12:1–3.

`Read Genesis 12:1–3. What do these verses tell us about the agreement God made with Abram [Abraham]?`

God’s special agreement was called a covenant. God’s promises were at the center of His covenant with Abraham. God says to Abraham five times, “I will” (NIrV) do this or that. God’s promises to Abraham are marvelous. Why? Because God makes all the promises. And Abraham promises nothing. Most people do not think of God as the One in the relationship who does everything. Instead, we usually promise we will serve Him. In return, we ask Him to do something for us. But that is just another form of trying to be saved by your own efforts. God did not ask Abraham to promise anything. He asked Abraham only to accept His promises by faith. Of course, that was not an easy thing to do. Why? Because Abraham had to learn to trust completely in God and not in himself. (Read Genesis 22.) Abraham’s story shows us that the gospel is about being saved by faith.

Some think that the Bible teaches two ways of being saved. They say the Old Testament teaches that people were saved by obeying the law. But that way of being saved did not work. So, they say God got rid of the law. Then He made a new way of being saved. The new way was by faith. But this thinking is false in every way. Paul says so himself in Galatians 1:7. There is only one gospel.

`What other Old Testament examples can you find that show we are saved by faith? (Read Leviticus 17:11; Psalm 32:1–5; 2 Samuel 12:1–13; and Zechariah 3:1–4.)`

`People often talk of “cheap grace.” Grace is God’s gift of forgiveness, mercy, and power over sin. So, cheap grace is a wrong use of words. Grace is free. But it is not cheap. We ruin the idea of grace when we (1) think we can add our own works to it or (2) use it as an excuse to sin. How do we avoid either of these two traps?`