---
title:  Bought back by God from a curse
date:   27/07/2017
---

_Galatians 3:13_

Paul’s attackers were no doubt shocked by his strong words in Galatians 3:10. They did not think that they were under a curse. They thought they would be blessed for obeying the law. But Paul leaves no room for doubt: “For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse, as it is written: ‘Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the Book of the Law’ ” (NIV).

Paul shows the disagreement between two completely different ideas: (1) being saved by faith and (2) being saved by works.The special blessings and the curses in Deuteronomy 27 and 28 are very clear. Those who obeyed were blessed. Those who disobeyed were cursed. So, for example, suppose a person wanted to be saved by obeying the law. Then he or she would need to obey the whole law. We are not free to pick and choose which laws we want to follow. And we should not think that God will overlook a few mistakes here and there. Being saved by the law means you obey all of it or none of it.

Being saved by the law is bad news for everyone. Why? Because “all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Romans 3:23, NIV). We can try hard, then, to be good. But the law shows we are lawbreakers.

`Read Galatians 3:13 and 2 Corinthians 5:21. How did Christ set us free from the curse of the law?`

The wording “set us free” (Galatians 3:13, NIrV) is translated as “redeemed” in the NIV. The word “redeem” means “to buy back.” It was used to mean the price paid to set hostages or slaves free. Jesus paid the price to set us free from the curse of the law. The curse of the law is death. Sin cost God the life of His Son (John 3:16). Jesus took our sins upon Himself (1 Corinthians 6:20). He suffered the full curse of sin for us (2 Corinthians 5:21).

Paul points to Deuteronomy 21:23 as proof. The Jews believed a person whose dead body hung upon a tree was under God’s curse. Jesus’ death on the cross was seen as an example of this curse (Acts 5:30; 1 Peter 2:24).

So it is no surprise that the cross caused some Jews to stumble in their faith. They could not understand why the Savior was cursed by God. But the Savior’s being cursed was exactly God’s plan.Yes, the Messiah took a curse upon Himself. But it was not His own curse—it was ours.