---
title:  Additional thought
date:   28/07/2017
---

“Christ was our Substitute. The sins of us all were laid upon Him. He was numbered with sinners in order to redeem us from the curse of the law. The guilt of all humans pressed upon His heart. The anger of God against sin filled the soul of His Son with fear and worry. All His life, Christ told a fallen world the good news of their heavenly Father’s mercy and forgiving love. The main topic of Christ’s preaching was how even the worst sinner could be saved. But now the terrible weight of guilt prevents Him from seeing the Father’s forgiving face. And the Savior’s heart is pierced with a sorrow that cannot fully be understood by humans. So great was this suffering that Christ hardly felt His physical pain.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 753.

“Martin Luther was a church Reformer. [A reformer is someone who works to change things for the better.] Luther now entered his work of reform with boldness. He stood strong for the truth. He warned the people about how much God hates sin. He taught them that it is impossible for humans by their own works to be free of guilt or escape sin’s punishment. Nothing but sorrow for sin and faith in Christ can save the sinner. The forgiveness and mercy of Christ cannot be bought. It is a free gift. Luther told people not to buy their forgiveness from the priests. Instead, they were to look in faith to a risen Savior.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 129.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Even today in our own church, some people still have a hard time believing they are saved by faith alone.Why do you think they find it so hard to believe?`

`2. Paul spoke very strong words against the false idea that we are saved by works. What does Paul’s defense of the truth teach us about how important what we believe is? Why should we take a strong stand against false teachings and practices in our church?`

**Summary**: From the beginning of our Christian life until the end, we are saved by faith in Christ alone. Faith in God’s promises made Abraham right with God. And God counted him as holy. That same gift of being made right with God is offered to anyone today who has the faith of Abraham. The only reason we are not punished for our mistakes is because Jesus paid the price for our sins on the cross.
