---
title:  Sharing Jesus
date:   13/06/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Matthew 28:18–20; 2 Peter 3:18; 1 Peter 3:8–15; Hosea 4:17; Zechariah 10.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Almighty Lord has given his message to me, his servant. I speak it on his behalf [for him]. I know what to say to help weak and tired people. The Lord wakes me up every morning so that I can learn something. I listen carefully to him, as a student listens to his teacher” (Isaiah 50:4, EASY).

Sabbath morning for Pastor G. was very busy. He woke up early. He got ready to teach Sabbath School and preach his sermon. Pastor G. also planned to preach at some Bible meetings in the afternoon. He grabbed his keys, ran out the door, and sped away.

Pastor G. drove through the city traffic. He was upset that so many people were out on a Saturday morning. They could make him late for church. He thought, “Where are all these people going anyway?” Then, out of nowhere, a car moved in front of him. Pastor G. hit the brakes. He held up his fist in anger and yelled at the driver.

Finally, Pastor G. arrived at church. As he stood up to teach the lesson, he looked at the faces of the people in his class. Then he saw the face of the driver he yelled at just 20 minutes earlier. The driver sat in his class!

Later, a church member introduced the driver to Pastor G. The driver was a non-Adventist who was visiting family. Pastor G. remembered that we need to be very careful to show God’s love in everything we say and do. You never know how your behavior can change the lives of other people.