---
title:  Witnesses For Jesus
date:   14/06/2026
---

`Read Jesus’ Important Command in Matthew 28:18–20 in the ERV, ICB, NIrV, NLV, or WE Bibles. How many times does Jesus use the words “all” or “always” in these verses? (In the Greek language, the words “all” and “always” come from the same word ‘pas.’) What are the messages connected with these words?`

Jesus gave us the command: “ ‘Go and make fol­lowers’ ” (Matthew 28:19, ERV). God gave the Seventh-day Adventist Church the job of making new followers for Jesus. Together, we all announce the Good News and the Three Angels’ Messages (Revelation 14:6–12). These messages help people get ready for Jesus’ soon coming!

Anyone who gets new life in Jesus is a witness. Too often, people think that sharing Jesus is something they can’t do or don’t want to do. You may have trouble seeing yourself preaching on a street corner or giving a Bible study. So, you say, “Not me! No way! I’m too shy.”

Sharing Jesus is talking about the things Jesus is doing in your life. What is He teaching you? Share your expe­rience and knowledge with other people. God is so good. What He did for us and is doing is the best news that people can hear. We cannot and should not be afraid to share! God saved you. He knows your name. He invites you to accept His love and forgiveness. You are His. Can there be any better news for anyone anywhere?

Jesus’ followers weren’t educated in the popular schools of the day. But we can learn from His followers.

`How did Christians in the New Testament church share Jesus? What did the people do who heard Peter and John preach? Read Acts 1:8 and Acts 4:13 for the answers.`

Peter and John announced, “ ‘We must tell people about the things that we have seen and heard’ ” (Acts 4:20, EASY). “Peter and John had been with Jesus” (Acts 4:13, ERV). So, they must tell people about Him. God’s Spirit gave them courage and power to convince people.

`Spend some time in prayer right now. Ask God for courage to share Him with the people He puts in your life. Ask Him for wisdom to know when to share and what to say. Read 1 John 4:7–11: pray for this love to be in your heart.`