---
title:  Sharing God In Love
date:   15/06/2026
---

Do you wonder why Jesus kept working so hard day after day? The Bible tells us, “When Jesus saw the crowds of people, he felt sorry for them. They had trouble in their minds. They had nobody to help them. Jesus thought, ‘These people are like [the same as] sheep that have nobody to take care of them’ ” (Matthew 9:36, EASY). Love and pity kept Jesus going. God’s love should cause us to lead people to Jesus and Bible truth, too (2 Corinthians 5:14).

Do you look at strangers and wonder if they know Jesus? Do you feel God’s love for strangers in need? God’s love in us helps us to want to lead people to Him. Jeremiah talks about this Bible truth when he says, “ ‘Sometimes I think, “I will say nothing about the Lord or his message.” But then his message burns like [the same as] a fire inside me. It [not sharing God’s message] gives me pain in my mind and my body. I cannot keep his message to myself. I have to speak it’ ” (Jeremiah 20:9, EASY).

When we share God with people, we must not force them to accept God or Bible truth. Because God is love, He never forces anyone to love or serve Him. God didn’t force Adam and Eve to stay away from the forbidden tree (Genesis 2:16, 17). God didn’t force people to enter the ark to be saved from the Flood (Genesis 7:1). God didn’t force the Israelites to keep the Promise (Deuteronomy 4:29–31). So, if God doesn’t force people, what does He do for them? God met people’s needs (Matthew 4:23–25). He invited people to follow Him. Jesus never forces anyone to follow Him or His truth. But He never gives up on us (Matthew 23:37).

As we share Jesus, we must do what He did. Ellen G. White says, “Jesus didn’t force people to accept Him. Satan and his followers force people to do what they want. . . . What is the strongest proof that we have Satan’s spirit? We show we have his spirit when we hurt people who don’t agree with our ideas. We show his spirit when we destroy people who don’t view our work with much favor.”—The Desire of Ages, page 487, adapted.

We live in a time when people hate the truth. But that shouldn’t stop us from sharing it in thoughtful and loving ways. Remember, our own personal story about Jesus is often the most powerful truth we can share (Revelation 12:11).

`Read 2 Peter 3:18. How are you growing in God’s love and knowledge? How do your relationships show that you are?`