---
title:  Advice For Sharing Jesus
date:   16/06/2026
---

The question for each of us is: Are you sharing Jesus with anyone? The postman? A store clerk? Someone you see daily when you’re out walking? God asks every Christian to help Him with this work. He promises to teach us “what to say. He has taught [us] how to help those who are tired” (Isaiah 50:4, NIrV). As Christians, we always must be ready to give reasons for our faith and hope (1 Peter 3:15).

`Read 1 Peter 3:8–15. What is the Bible telling us in these verses?`

Below is some advice to help you share Jesus with other people:

- Get to know someone. Take the time to build a friendship. Show this person that you care. Your love and interest will help lead this person to God.
- Pray for the Holy Spirit to work on this person’s heart. Pray for the right time to share about Jesus.
- Look for ways to talk about your own faith and experiences. Or offer a prayer for this person. Ask God to give you courage to do these things in a loving way.
- Think of ways to connect your new friend with people from your church. A special program or small group Bible study is a good way to do that.
- Pray about the special needs or questions your new friend may ask you. Show your friend how the Bible offers hope, advice, and support in our lives. At first, you may share a Bible promise. Or you may answer one of your friend’s questions. Your answer or the Bible verse may start a deep conversation about Jesus. Pray for God to help these things to happen.
- The time will come when you may want to ask your friend to study the Bible with you. Later, your friend may wish to get baptized. Don’t force the person to do these things. At the same time, don’t wait too long to invite your friend to Bible study or get baptized if you see that this person is ready and interested.
- Our behavior should show who we are. The love and care we show other people can change lives for the better. When God’s love fills our hearts, we will want to bring other people to Jesus.