---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   19/06/2026
---

“Do you want to have real love for God? Then you must first love your brother or sister in Jesus. Your love must come from a heart that isn’t selfish. How do we get this spirit? We can try to love other people in our strength, but that won’t work. We need the love of Jesus in our hearts. When we live in Jesus, our hearts will be filled with love for other ­people.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 384, adapted.

“Do you want a strong spiritual life? Then work for the Lord. Win people to Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, page 356, adapted.

“Do you want strength to say no to evil? Then serve God with all your heart and might.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 105, adapted.

“Do you want to feel the joy that comes from seeing people saved? You must work with Jesus to help Him save the people He died for on the cross.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 142, adapted.

“Don’t reject the fellowship with Jesus that you get from working with Him. This work is our special training. This training helps get us ready to live with Jesus forever.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 264, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Why is love so important for sharing Jesus with other people?`

`Winning people to Jesus is connected to a personal and healthy relationship with God. How does your own experience show that this idea is true?`

`What basic understanding of God do you need to have to share Him with other people?`

`What if you wanted to give a Bible study to someone who doesn’t believe in Jesus. Where do you start? What is more important at first: proving Bible truth or inviting someone to know Jesus?`

`Sing or read the words from the hymn “Redeemed!” (The Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal, no. 338). Think about the ways that you are living and sharing the message of this song.`