---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/06/2019
---

Ellen G. White, “Carmel,” pp. 143–154, in Prophets and Kings; “The Voice in the Wilderness,” pp. 97–108, in The Desire of Ages.

“Our message must be as direct as was that of John. He rebuked kings for their iniquity. Notwithstanding the peril his life was in, he never allowed truth to languish on his lips. Our work in this age must be as faithfully done.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 4, p. 1184.

**Discussion Questions:**

`As a class, discuss the relevance of the Elijah message to your local church. What can you do to help your church understand the message and the church’s role in helping to spread it?`

`Have those who are willing share with the class their own personal experiences of having their “hearts turned.” What changes came about? What effect did this experience have upon their lives and the lives of their families?`

`If we see ourselves in the role of John the Baptist, what should we expect to happen to us? What is the implicit message in that answer?`

`As a class, work on a paragraph, a kind of “Declaration of Family Principles,” that best encapsulates what the biblical idea for a family is. What criteria would you use to help craft those principles? What have you learned this quarter that might have helped you in establishing what these principles might be? Be prepared to share it with the whole church.`

`What promises can you as a parent claim for children who, at least at this stage, have run away from the Lord?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Prophets and Kings_, “Carmel,” pp. 143–154;

_The Desire of Ages_, “The Voice in the Wilderness,” pp. 97–108. 