---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/09/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pp. 315–327, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

This week’s lesson presents a special focus on God’s work in be­lievers. The Lord can do in us “immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine” (Eph. 3:20, NIV). We should not focus on ourselves and gratify our personal desires, because this leads to idolatry. Instead, our attention should be on God and His power. He gives the strength, which leads to a new and victorious life (Phil. 4:13; Jude 1:24, 25).

“Love no less than justice demanded that for this sin judgment should be inflicted. God is the guardian as well as the sovereign of His people. He cuts off those who are determined upon rebellion, that they may not lead others to ruin. In sparing the life of Cain, God had demonstrated to the universe what would be the result of permitting sin to go unpunished. The influence exerted upon his descendants by his life and teaching led to the state of corruption that demanded the destruction of the whole world by a flood. . . . The longer men lived, the more corrupt they became. So with the apostasy at Sinai. Unless punishment had been speedily visited upon transgression, the same results would again have been seen.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 325.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Dwell more on the question at the end of Monday’s study. What are ways that we can worship the creation itself, as opposed to the Creator? For example, how can we seek to be good stewards of the earth and seek to protect the environment without worshiping it or making it into an idol itself?`

`One may discern the gravity of the situation by the consequences and results of an action or by the seriousness of the reaction to the event. Why did Moses order the execution of those who stubbornly refused to repent and continued in their rebellion against God and His teaching?`

`Why is substitutionary atonement the only correct model of atonement? Why is any theory of atonement that denies, or downplays, the substitutionary foundation of the gospel a grievous theological error? Read 1 Peter 2:24. How does it powerfully reveal the idea of Jesus as our Substitute?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Strength in Self-Sacrifice,” Youth’s Instructor, February 12, 1903, par. 1–14.\
“A Crisis in Israel,” Conflict and Courage, April 1, p. 97.\