---
title:  First Things First
date:  19/02/2023
---

`Read Ecclesiastes 12:1. What’s the message there for us?`

As youths mature into adulthood, thoughts will arise about having to provide for basic needs—food, clothing, and shelter. Jesus Himself has told us how to prioritize our needs when He said, “But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you” (Matt. 6:33). Of course, for those who are older and who didn’t make a choice for Jesus when they were young, there is still time to make the right decisions regarding stewardship.

As we saw in Genesis 28:20–22, Jacob had made some important life choices, both spiritual and financial. In the vision, the Lord introduced Himself to Jacob as “ ‘the Lord God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac’ ” (Gen. 28:13, NKJV). Then as part of his vow to God, Jacob said, “ ‘The Lord shall be my God’ ” (Gen. 28:21, NKJV).

`Read Genesis 29:9–20. What is important about the timing of this event in the life of Jacob?`

After Jacob made his spiritual and financial commitments to God, the Lord directed him to Rachel at the well (see Gen. 29:9–20). It is fitting to make your spiritual decision and your lifework decision before committing to marriage. Your future spouse should know “what they are getting into.” Is this person a committed Christian? What type of work will he or she be involved in? Will this person be a teacher, a nurse, a lawyer, a laborer, whatever? What kind of life will I be committing to? Other questions that need answers before the marriage commitment are: What level of education has been completed? What amount of debt will come into the marriage? Am I willing to accept this situation as part of my responsibility?

`Read 2 Corinthians 6:14, 15. Why is this principle so important to consider when looking for a life partner? Though it doesn’t guarantee a good marriage, why would it help make the chances of a good marriage greater?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth.” Jesus desires the service of [the youth.] He wants them to be heirs of immortality. They may grow up into noble manhood and womanhood, notwithstanding the moral pollution that abounds, that corrupts so many of the youth at an early age. They may be free in Christ; the children of light, not of darkness.<br/>
God calls upon every young man and young woman to renounce every evil habit, to be diligent in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. . . . that . . . by the power of His Spirit, [He] will give them strength to overcome.<br/>
Individual, constant, united efforts will be rewarded by success. Those who desire to do a great deal of good in our world must be willing to do it in God’s way, by doing little things. . . .<br/>
Steady progress in a good work, the frequent repetition of one kind of faithful service, is of more value in God’s sight than the doing of one great work, and wins for the youth a good report, giving character to their efforts.—Messages to Young People, p. 369.

He who gives men power to get wealth has with the gift bound up an obligation. Of all that we acquire He claims a specified portion. The tithe is the Lord’s. “All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree,” “the tithe of the herd, or of the flock, . . . shall be holy unto the Lord.” Leviticus 27:30, 32. The pledge made by Jacob at Bethel shows the extent of the obligation. “Of all that Thou shalt give me,” he said, “I will surely give the tenth unto Thee.” Genesis 28:22.<br/>
“Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse” (Malachi 3:10), is God’s command. No appeal is made to gratitude or to generosity. This is a matter of simple honesty. The tithe is the Lord’s; and He bids us return to Him that which is His own.<br/>
“It is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.” 1 Corinthians 4:2. If honesty is an essential principle of business life, must we not recognize our obligation to God—the obligation that underlies every other?—Education, pp. 138, 139.

God made from the man a woman, to be a companion and helpmeet for him, to be one with him, to cheer, encourage, and bless him, he in his turn to be her strong helper. All who enter into matrimonial relations with a holy purpose—the husband to obtain the pure affections of a woman’s heart, the wife to soften and improve her husband’s character and give it completeness—fulfill God’s purpose for them.—The Adventist Home, p. 99.

In the marriage relation there is a very important step taken—the blending of two lives into one. It is in accord with the will of God that man and wife should be linked together in His work, to carry it forward in a wholeness and a holiness. They can do this.<br/>
The blessing of God in the home where this union shall exist is as the sunshine of heaven, because it is the Lord’s ordained will that man and wife should be linked together in holy bonds of union, under Jesus Christ, with Him to control, and His spirit to guide.—The Adventist Home, pp. 101, 102.