---
title:  The Earning Years
date:  21/02/2023
---

As we have seen, God intended for humans to work in one capacity or another. This part of our life (the working years) is usually about 40 years long. For many people this is the time when children are being brought up and educated and when the home and other major purchases are acquired. This can be a very intense time financially. It is a very sensitive time because the family is learning to work together, and its members are creating lifelong bonds. Financial stress can wreck the marriage at this point, and frequently does. Families in which both parties have a Christian commitment and are willing to follow biblical principles are much more stable.

`Read 1 Timothy 5:8; Proverbs 14:23; and Colossians 3:23, 24. What important points can we take away from these texts about finances in the home?`

In many cases, the husband is the main breadwinner, though often both spouses work. Of course, unexpected circumstances can arise—sickness, economic downturns, whatever—that make this ideal difficult. People need, then, to adjust accordingly.

The children who are brought into the world during this segment of life are called “a heritage from the Lord” (Ps. 127:3, NKJV). We must remember that children bring with them an awesome responsibility. The goal of Christian parents is to train their children to become independent adults in this life and to fit them for the life to come. Here are three points to help parents:

_1. Provide a Christian home environment._ This would include regular and interesting family worship, regular Sabbath School and church attendance, and faithfulness in tithes and offerings. These are great habits to form in early life.

_2. Teach children a willingness to work and an appreciation for it._ Children will discover that diligence and integrity at work are always noticed, appreciated, and rewarded. They will learn that money comes to us as a result of our giving time to others by performing tasks that are valuable to them.

_3. Help with a good education._ Education is expensive today—particularly Christian private-school education. But to parents with plans for their children not only for this life but also for that which is to come, it is well worth the cost.

`Of course, no matter what they do, no one has any guarantee about the direction their children will go. Why is it important for parents not to blame themselves for the wrong choices their older children might make?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

How many a man might have escaped financial failure and ruin by heeding the warnings, so often repeated and emphasized in the Scriptures:<br/>
“Wealth gotten in haste shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labor shall have increase.” Proverbs 13:11, R.V. . . .<br/>
These are principles with which are bound up the well-being of society, of both secular and religious associations. It is these principles that give security to property and life. For all that makes confidence and co-operation possible, the world is indebted to the law of God, as given in His word, and as still traced, in lines often obscure and well-nigh obliterated, in the hearts of men.<br/>
The psalmist’s words, “The law of Thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver” (Psalm 119:72), state that which is true from other than a religious point of view. They state an absolute truth and one that is recognized in the business world. Even in this age of passion for money getting, when competition is so sharp and methods are so unscrupulous, it is still widely acknowledged that, for a young man starting in life, integrity, diligence, temperance, purity, and thrift constitute a better capital than any amount of mere money.—Education, pp. 136, 137.

By His own example [Jesus] taught that it is our duty to be industrious, that our work should be performed with exactness and thoroughness, and that such labor is honorable. The exercise that teaches the hands to be useful and trains the young to bear their share of life’s burdens gives physical strength, and develops every faculty. All should find something to do that will be beneficial to themselves and helpful to others. God appointed work as a blessing, and only the diligent worker finds the true glory and joy of life. The approval of God rests with loving assurance upon children and youth who cheerfully take their part in the duties of the household, sharing the burdens of father and mother. Such children will go out from the home to be useful members of society.<br/>
Throughout His life on earth, Jesus was an earnest and constant worker. He expected much; therefore He attempted much. . . . Jesus did not shirk care and responsibility. . . . The positiveness and energy, the solidity and strength of character, manifested in Christ are to be developed in us, through the same discipline that He endured. And the grace that He received is for us.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 72, 73.

There is science in the humblest kind of work, and if all would thus regard it, they would see nobility in labor. Heart and soul are to be put into work of any kind; then there is cheerfulness and efficiency. In agricultural or mechanical occupations, men may give evidence to God that they appreciate His gift in the physical powers, and the mental faculties as well. Let the educated ability be employed devising improved methods of work. This is just what the Lord wants. There is honor in any class of work that is essential to be done. Let the law of God be made the standard of action and it ennobles and sanctifies all labor. Faithfulness in the discharge of every duty makes the work noble, and reveals a character that God can approve.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 5, p. 1112.