---
title:  Working With Integrity
date:  22/02/2023
---

Another phase of a “successful” life, the last phase, has the potential to be the most enjoyable—if the decisions of the earlier years have been wise and not ruined by unexpected events. In an ideal situation the parents have raised their children to become independent adults, the home is paid for, the transportation needs are met, there are no lingering debts, and there is a sufficient income stream to provide for the senior family’s needs.

God calls His children to a higher standard in work and life. That standard is God’s law written in our hearts (see Jer. 31:33) and reflected in our characters. As society erodes and Christian teaching is diluted and minimized, it will become even more important for the individual Christian to live and work on a level that is above reproach. The Bible says, “A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, loving favor rather than silver and gold” (Prov. 22:1, NKJV).

The Bible records instances of employers who recognized that they were blessed because of having a godly employee. When Jacob desired to leave his father-in-law, Laban, and return with his family to his homeland, Laban entreated him not to leave, saying, “ ‘Please stay, if I have found favor in your eyes, for I have learned by experience that the Lord has blessed me for your sake’ ” (Gen. 30:27, NKJV). And when Joseph was sold into slavery in Egypt, his master, Potiphar, made a similar observation about Joseph’s work and rewarded him accordingly.

`Read Genesis 39:2–5. Although the texts do not specifically tell us, what do you imagine Joseph had been doing that caused his master to look so favorably upon him?`

“Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God” (1 Cor. 10:31, NKJV). So, in our work and financial management and whatever we do, we should do it all to the glory of God. He is the One who gives us the knowledge and strength to succeed in life.

“ ‘Yours, O Lord, is the greatness, the power and the glory, the victory and the majesty; for all that is in heaven and in earth is Yours; Yours is the kingdom, O Lord, and You are exalted as head over all. Both riches and honor come from You, and You reign over all. In Your hand is power and might; in Your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all’ ” (1 Chron. 29:11, 12, NKJV).

`What are the principles that you are following, not just in work but in life in general? What changes might you need to make?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

That which lies at the foundation of business integrity and of true success is the recognition of God’s ownership. The Creator of all things, He is the original proprietor. We are His stewards. All that we have is a trust from Him, to be used according to His direction.<br/>
This is an obligation that rests upon every human being. It has to do with the whole sphere of human activity. Whether we recognize it or not, we are stewards, supplied from God with talents and facilities, and placed in the world to do a work appointed by Him.<br/>
To every man is given “his work” (Mark 13:34), the work for which his capabilities adapt him, the work which will result in greatest good to himself and to his fellow men, and in greatest honor to God.—Education, pp. 137, 138.

Strength of character consists of two things—power of will and power of self-control. Many youth mistake strong, uncontrolled passion for strength of character; but the truth is that he who is mastered by his passions is a weak man. The real greatness and nobility of the man is measured by the power of the feelings that he subdues, not by the power of the feelings that subdue him. The strongest man is he, who, while sensitive to abuse, will yet restrain passion and forgive his enemies. Such men are true heroes. . . .<br/>
God has given us our intellectual and moral powers, but to a great extent every person is the architect of his own character. Every day the structure is going up. The word of God warns us to take heed how we build, to see that our building is founded upon the eternal Rock. The time is coming when our work will stand revealed just as it is. Now is the time for all to cultivate the powers which God has given them, that they may form characters for usefulness here and for a higher life hereafter.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 656.

“Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.” Here is a principle which lies at the foundation of every act, thought, and motive; the consecration of the entire being, both physical and mental, to the control of the Spirit of God. The unsanctified will and passions must be crucified. This may be regarded as a close and severe work. Yet it must be done, or you will hear the terrible sentence from the mouth of Jesus: “Depart.” You can do all things through Christ, who strengtheneth you. . . .<br/>
You need to cry earnestly: “O Lord, my inmost soul convert.” You can have an influence for good over other young people. May the God of peace sanctify you wholly, soul, body, and spirit.—Lift Him Up, p. 262.

Joseph walked with God. He would not be persuaded to deviate from the path of righteousness, and transgress God’s law, by any inducements or threats. And when he was imprisoned, and suffered because of his innocence, he meekly bore it without murmuring. His self-control, and patience in adversity, and his unwavering fidelity are left on record of the benefit of all who should afterward live on the earth. When Joseph’s brethren acknowledged their sin before him, he freely forgave them, and showed by his acts of benevolence and love that he harbored no resentful feelings for their former cruel conduct toward him.—Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, p. 176.