---
title:  Seeking Godly Counsel
date:  23/02/2023
---

There are scores of secular money-management gurus out there, but God warned us against consulting them for the management of the assets He has entrusted to us. “Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful; but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in His law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither; and whatever he does shall prosper” (Ps. 1:1–3, NKJV).

So, the man who delights in the law of the Lord (the law here could be understood more broadly as the Word of God) shall be blessed. How simple is that? And he will prosper—be successful.

`Read Proverbs 3:5–8. How do we apply this principle in our basic financial matters?`

An overview of the biblical counsel on financial management gives us very valuable points to follow. Let’s look at seven of them.

_1. Get organized._ Develop a spending plan (Prov. 27:23, 24). Many families just exist from paycheck to paycheck. Without a simple plan for earning, spending, and saving, life is much more stressful.

_2. Spend less than you earn._ Determine to live within your means (Prov. 15:16). Many families in Western countries actually spend more than they earn. This is made possible only because of the availability of credit and debt. Many problems plague those who are in debt.

_3. Save a portion from every pay period (Prov. 6:6–8)._ We save to make larger purchases in the future and to take care of unplanned expenses, such as accidents or illness. Some savings can be used to plan for the time when because of advancing age, we are no longer able to be employed.

_4. Avoid debt like COVID-19 (Prov. 22:7)._ Interest is one expense you can live without. A person or a family living with debt—that is, on borrowed money—is really living today on money they expect to earn in the future. If any life changes occur, then serious financial embarrassment can result.

_5. Be a diligent worker._ “The soul of a lazy man desires and has nothing; but the soul of the diligent shall be made rich” (Prov. 13:4, NKJV).

_6. Be financially faithful with God (Deut. 28:1–14)._ No family can afford to live without God’s blessing.

_7. Remember that this earth is not our real home._ Our management says a lot about where our ultimate priorities are (see Matt. 25:14–21).---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

As the Lord sees fit, He imparts to those who keep His way, power that enables them to exert a strong influence for good. On God they are dependent, and to Him they must give an account of the way in which they use the talents He has entrusted to them. They are to realize that they are God’s stewards and are to seek to magnify His name.<br/>
Those whose affections are set on God will succeed. They will lose sight of self in Christ, and worldly attractions will have no power to allure them from their allegiance. They will realize that outward display does not give strength. It is not ostentation, outward show, that gives a correct representation of the work that we, as God’s chosen people, are to do. Those who are connected with our sanitarium work should be adorned with the grace of Christ. This will give them the greatest influence for good.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 90.

The wisest of men may learn useful lessons from the ways and habits of the little creatures of the earth. The industrious bee gives to men of intelligence an example that they would do well to imitate. These insects observe perfect order, and no idler is allowed in the hive. They execute their appointed work with an intelligence and activity that are beyond our comprehension. The ants, which we consider as only pests to be crushed under our feet, are in many respects superior to man; for he does not as wisely improve the gifts of God. The wise man calls our attention to the small things of the earth: “Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise: which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.” “The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer.” We may learn from these little teachers a lesson of faithfulness. Should we improve with the same diligence the faculties which an all-wise Creator has bestowed upon us, how greatly would our capacities for usefulness be increased. God’s eye is upon the smallest of His creatures; does He not, then, regard man formed in His image and require of him corresponding returns for all the advantages He has given him?—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 455.

Jesus has been delivering His goods to His servants age after age. One generation after another has been gathering up the hereditary trust; the talents have increased largely by use, and have descended to us. We are as His hired servants. He has brought us, paid the ransom money in His own blood to secure our willing service. . . .<br/>
All He asks . . . is just to use the talents entrusted. If you think that God has given you five talents, then be consoled that He does not require of you the improvement of ten. In the name of Jesus of Nazareth, I bid you look up! The rainbow of promise is encircling the throne.—The Upward Look, p. 343.