---
title:  Further Thought
date:  24/02/2023
---

“No scheme of business or plan of life can be sound or complete that embraces only the brief years of this present life and makes no provision for the unending future. . . . No man can lay up treasure in heaven without finding his life on earth thereby enriched and ennobled.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 145.

“That which lies at the foundation of business integrity and of true success is the recognition of God’s ownership. The Creator of all things, He is the original proprietor. We are His stewards. All that we have is a trust from Him, to be used according to His direction.”—Education, 137.

Because of the pressure to provide for our families, many times we think that our work is simply to provide an income. But as Christians, we also face doing our part in the Great Commission that Jesus gave to all His followers. After quoting this commission as found in Mark 16:15, Ellen G. White wrote, “Not . . . all are called to be ministers or missionaries in the ordinary sense of the term; but all may be workers with Him in giving the ‘glad tidings’ to their fellow men. To all, great or small, learned or ignorant, old or young, the command is given.”—Education, p. 264.

“We need to follow more closely God’s plan of life. To do our best in the work that lies nearest, to commit our ways to God, and to watch for the indications of His providence—these are rules that ensure safe guidance in the choice of an occupation.”—Education, p. 267.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How do we as Christians define what a “successful” life is? What might the difference be between what the world defines as success and what we (ideally) should? Take, for instance, John the Baptist. How would you define his life, which ended ignobly in a prison, all based on the whim of an evil woman? Would you call it successful? What reasons can you give for your answer?`

`How do we explain the fact that there are many very “successful” people who follow none of the biblical principles about wealth management or life in general? Or what about those who try to follow them and, nevertheless, don’t succeed? Perhaps they get sick or calamity strikes. How are we to understand these situa­tions?`