---
title:  The Cross and the Gavel
date:  23/04/2023
---

#### inGest

The last book of the Bible, Revelation, focuses on the culmination of the agelong controversy between good and evil. Lucifer, a rebel angel, challenged the justice, fairness, and wisdom of God. He claimed that God is unfair and unjust in the way He administers the universe. Revelation’s final judgment is at the very center of this conflict over God’s character.

Revelation 14:7 reads, “Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water.” The gospel and the judgment, both parts of the first angel’s message, are inseparably intertwined. Were it not for the “everlasting gospel,” we would have no hope in facing the impending judgment. In fact, as we will see, the “everlasting gospel” is our only hope as we approach the judgment. There is no question that part of the gospel is the announcement of this event.

During the judgment the unfallen worlds will see that God has done everything He can to save every human being. It reveals God’s justice and mercy. It says something about His love and law. It speaks of His gracious willingness to save and His power to deliver.

The judgment is part of God’s ultimate solution to the sin problem. God answered Satan’s charges on the cross, but in the judgment, He reveals that He has truly done everything possible to save us.

Heaven’s infinite, exact, detailed records will be opened (see Dan. 7:10) at the judgment. We are so precious to God that the entire universe will pause to consider the choices we have made in light of the call of the Holy Spirit and the redemption so freely provided by Christ on Calvary’s cross.

Both the cross and the judgment reveal that God is just and merciful. The law demands the death of the sinner. Justice declares, “The wages of sin is death,” but mercy responds, “The gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord” (Rom. 6:23). If God’s law could be changed or abolished, it would be totally unnecessary for Jesus to die. Christ’s death establishes the eternal nature of the law, and the law is the basis of the judgment.

Our works reveal our choices and our loyalty to God. According to Ephesians 2:8, 9, “by grace you have been saved through faith . . . not of works, lest anyone should boast.” But when Christ saves us, He changes us, “for we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works” (verse 10). Our good works, even when empowered by the Holy Spirit, do not save us, but they do testify that our faith is genuine. God’s final judgment strips away all pretense, all hypocrisy, all falsehood, and pierces into the very depth of our being.

Journal:

`How do you see the inseparability of the gospel from the judgment?`

`What hope for yourself can you take away from the link between the gospel and judgment?`

` `