---
title:  Behind the Scenes
date:  24/04/2023
---

#### inTerpret

The prophetic books of Daniel and Revelation are companion volumes that point us to the unfolding events in the last days of earth’s history. The book of Revelation announces that the hour of God’s judgment has come. The book of Daniel reveals when the judgment began.

In Daniel 7 God revealed the history of the world to the prophet. He watched as nations rose and fell and persecuting powers oppressed His people. After describing Babylon, Media-Persia, Greece, Rome, the fall of the Roman Empire, and the persecution of the church for the 1,260 years depicted in the text (Dan. 7:25; see also Rev. 12:6, 14), God focused Daniel’s mind on a glorious celestial event that will set all things right. The prophet’s attention was directed from the rise and fall of nations and the oppressive powers of the earth to the throne room of the universe and God’s final judgment, when He will right every wrong and establish His everlasting kingdom of righteousness.

God took Daniel in prophetic vision from the chaos and conflict of the earth to the glories of heaven’s sanctuary and the sitting of the supreme court of the universe, where Christ, the rightful ruler of this world, would receive from His Father the kingdom that was rightfully His.

The destiny of all humanity is decided in heaven’s courtroom. Right prevails, truth triumphs, justice reigns. This is one of the most amazing, most marvelous, most spectacular scenes in all of Scripture. And the good news is that it ends very well for God’s faithful people, those clothed in the righteousness of Christ.

Jesus approaches His heavenly Father in the presence of the entire universe. Heavenly beings crowd in around the throne of God, and the entire universe of unfallen beings stands in awe of this judgment scene. The long conflict that has waged for millennia is soon to be over. The battle for the throne of the universe is fully, completely decided.

In Revelation 4 John beholds an open door in heaven and receives the invitation to “come up here, and I will show you things which must take place after this” (verse 1). Jesus invited the apostle to look through the open door to view cosmic scenes in the great controversy between good and evil. With John we too can look through that open door and receive a glimpse of the eternal plan of salvation. We are witnesses of issues that are being decided in heaven’s celestial court. Fundamental issues in the great controversy between good and evil develop before our eyes through these verses.

Revelation 4:2–4 obviously reveals a throne room scene. God the Father sits upon the throne surrounded by heavenly beings. There is thunder and lightning, symbolizing God’s judgments. We also notice in Revelation 4:4 that 24 elders are present around God’s throne.

Who are these 24 elders? There were 24 divisions in the Levitical priesthood of ancient Israel. These priests represented the people before God. In 1 Peter 2:9 the apostle declares that New Testament believers are a “chosen generation, a royal priesthood.” Perhaps these 24 elders represent all the redeemed that will one day rejoice around the throne of God, or perhaps they represent those who were resurrected when Christ was resurrected—those who ascended to heaven with Him (Matt. 27:52; Eph. 4:7, 8).

Either way, this is good news. These are some of the redeemed from the earth sitting around the throne of God. They faced temptations just as we face them. Through the grace of Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit, they overcame. They are clothed in “white robes,” signifying the righteousness of Christ that covers and cleanses their sins. They have a golden crown upon their heads, signifying that they are victorious in the battle against evil and are part of heaven’s royal line of faith-filled believers (Rev. 4:4).

We see a throne in heaven with God seated upon it. Soon after the scene begins, all of heaven starts to sing, and the crescendo of praise builds higher and still higher: “You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power; for You created all things, and by Your will they exist and were created” (verse 11).

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`There are 24 humans around God’s throne in this scene. What does that imply about what heaven will be like? About the judgment?`

`What does it mean to you personally to be part of the “royal priesthood” of believers? How does it impact your day-to-day life?`

` `