---
title:  Jesus Is Worthy
date:  26/04/2023
---

#### inVite

In Revelation 5:1–5 we once again see a throne. A scroll is introduced with writing on both sides. It is sealed with the divine seal, and no one in heaven or on earth is worthy enough to open the scroll. Heavenly beings tremble. The issue is serious. No angelic being can represent humanity in earth’s final judgment. John weeps because no one can open the scroll or even look at it. Then one of the elders, one of those redeemed from the earth, speaks words of encouragement to John’s heart. Jesus, the Lamb of God, is worthy to open the scroll.

John beholds the ultimate answer to the problem of sin in Revelation 5:5. Here the aged prophet beholds the only way anyone can pass the final judgment at the throne of God: “But one of the elders said to me, ‘Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll.’. . . And I looked, and behold, . . . a Lamb as though it had been slain” (Rev. 5:5, 6).

In Revelation 5:8–12 Jesus, the Lamb of God who sacrificed His life for the salvation of all humanity, takes the scroll of judgment and opens it. All of heaven bursts forth in rapturous praise, for His victory over Satan’s temptations, His death on Calvary’s cross, His resurrection, and His ministry as high priest provide salvation for all who choose by faith to respond to His grace. The judgment is incredibly good news for the people of God. It speaks of the end of the reign of sin and the deliverance of God’s people.

Jesus stands for us in the judgment. His perfect righteous life covers us. His righteousness works within us to make us new. His grace pardons us, transforms us, and empowers us to live godly lives. Can anything be more encouraging?

We need not fear. We are not alone in the judgment, and the powers of evil are soundly defeated. Judgment is passed in “favor” of the people of God (Dan. 7:22). The purpose of the judgment is not to find out how bad we are but to reveal how good God is.

Think about the amazing words of Paul in Hebrews 7:25, which, talking about Jesus as our high priest, says that “He is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through Him” Save to the uttermost. The Greek word for “uttermost” means “full, complete, total.” It is Jesus who saves us; our job is to surrender to Him, claiming His victory for us. Our trust must be in Him, not in ourselves.

Journal:

`Meditate on Daniel 7 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How is Jesus as our substitute the only hope for salvation?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`

` `