---
title:  Gone Off Track
date:  28/12/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Romans 12:1–3**

**Gone Off Track**

The world today thirsts for true peace, joy, and love. Far too many suffer silently through pain, loneliness, fear, and sadness, without hope or healing. When emotional wounds deepen or remain unaddressed, a person can slip into a state of depression or face other mental challenges. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), one in eight people live with a mental health disorder (2022, www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/mental-disorders). When a person’s mental condition spirals out of control, it can lead to various forms of self-harm or suicide. Every year, 703,000 people globally are lost to suicide, which is the fourth leading cause of death in young adults ages 15–29 (WHO, 2023, www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/suicide). For every suicide, dozens more are attempted.

These statistics are especially pertinent to young adults, who are disproportionally impacted by mental health challenges. Surveys from nearly half a million internet users from 64 countries indicate that young adults (ages 18–24) are three to four times as likely to struggle with their mental health as their parent’s generation (Global Mind Project, 2022, https://mentalstateoftheworld.report). As we look at the world, and maybe even at our own lives, we realize something must change. We made a wrong turn somewhere, and it’s time we get back on track.

These statistics result from an intentional attempt by the enemy of souls to hijack the mind. While today’s industries seek to control the mind through modern technology and media as well as fast food and junk food (this has been well documented), something bigger is at work behind the scenes. In the book of Job, at a universal meeting with God, Satan was asked where he had come from, and his reply was, “from going to and fro on the earth” (Job 1:7). Behind the scenes, an adversary is at work, seeking to take control of the human mind. However, we need to resolve not to conform to the thinking and conditions of this world. God is waiting with eager desire for us to turn toward Him and allow Him to transform us by the renewing of the mind.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

As we study together the next thirteen weeks, we encourage readers to become familiar with other helpful resources that address mental health challenges. Two great places to begin are Youth Alive and Reminded:

[Youth Alive](youthaliveportal.org/mentalhealth)

[Reminded](reminded.org)

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 12:1–3 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `