---
title:  Behind the Scenes
date:  29/12/2024
---

#### inGest

The apostle Paul’s inspired letter to the church in Rome provides a glimpse of God’s longing for believers to experience a renewing of the mind (Rom. 12:2). The mind is where we form ideas and goals, acquire knowledge, solve problems, answer questions, and make decisions. Solomon aptly summarizes the importance of the mind by saying, “for everything you do flows from it” (Prov. 4:23, NIV). Renewing the mind means replacing old thought patterns, attitudes, and motives with new ones. Renewing broken minds involves overcoming fears, letting go of bitterness, and finding purpose and hope.

Such a renewal changes the way we view ourselves and others. Paul describes the humble attitude of a renewed mind in Romans 12:3, telling believers not to think of themselves “more highly than [they] ought to think, but to think soberly.” Paul was not only speaking of literal soberness, but as a metaphorical description of a spiritual state of being. While a sober mind is sharp and alert, an intoxicated mind is numbed, causing dizziness, weakness, paralysis, memory loss, and sometimes loss of consciousness. Drunkenness distorts people’s perceptions of themselves and their surroundings, making it difficult to walk and drive safely. Intoxication, whether physical or spiritual, severely impairs the ability to think properly. Spiritual sobriety involves keeping our minds healthy and responsive.

Peter, a disciple of Jesus, warned believers to think soberly so they could resist the enemy’s advances. “Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour” (1 Pet. 5:8). Speaking especially to believers in the last days, Peter wrote that “the end of all things is at hand; therefore be serious and watchful in your prayers” (1 Pet. 4:7). The enemy’s goal is to render our thinking ineffective. He knows his time is running out, he’s angry, and he’s making every effort to destroy us (Rev. 12:12). Early church teachers equipped believers to discern the enemy’s strategies so that they weren’t surprised by his attacks or “ignorant of his devices” (2 Cor. 2:11). Believers today should also be alert to the enemy’s strategies to hijack our minds and scramble our thinking.

Peter was speaking from personal experience. On the night he betrayed Jesus, didn’t His Master encourage him to be vigilant (Matt. 26:40, 41)? Didn’t Christ warn him that if his spiritual life were unguarded, he would deny Him (Luke 22:31–34)? Peter’s lack of spiritual self-awareness led him to neglect prayer, and as a result, he cursed Jesus and later wept over his failures (Matt. 26:74, 75). He neglected to listen to his Savior’s counsel to be aware of how Satan was attempting to ruin his life. Later, Peter realized his need for Christ, repented, was restored in his relationship with Jesus, and became a great preacher of salvation.

#### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Romans 12:1–3. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What are three things a person can do to experience a renewing of the mind?`

`List some ways Satan has held the minds of humanity captive. How has Satan held your mind captive?`