---
title:  Restoring God’s Image
date:  30/12/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Have you ever wished you could go back in time and just be a carefree, innocent little kid again? God has similar wishes for your life. God created people to reflect His image in their personalities and characters. In the book Education, Ellen White comments, “When Adam came from the Creator’s hand, he bore, in his physical, mental, and spiritual nature, a likeness to his Maker. ‘God created man in His own image’ (Genesis 1:27), and it was His purpose that the longer man lived the more fully he should reveal this image—the more fully reflect the glory of the Creator” ([1903], 15). After sin corrupted humanity’s nature, God’s aim became the restoration of His image in His children. God’s original design cannot be restored unless we allow Him to reset our thinking and renew our minds. The new mind becomes a reality as we learn to “have the mind of Christ” (1 Cor. 2:16). When we accept Christ as our personal Savior and Lord, we become a new creation (2 Cor. 5:17), seeking Him daily and aspiring to grow in Him by engaging in prayer, reading the Word, and seeking to be like Him (obedience). Through the power of the Holy Spirit, our thought processes will become one with His. His desires will become our desires, and we will think and act like Jesus.

The great news is that transformation is possible with the help of the Holy Spirit. As Ellen White says, “to restore in man the image of his Maker, to bring him back to the perfection in which he was created, to promote the development of body, mind, and soul, that the divine purpose in his creation might be realized—this was to be the work of redemption. This is the object of education, the great object of life” (Education, 15, 16). Redemption aims to restore and develop the human to reflect the likeness of the Divine! This takes place as we consistently behold “as in a mirror the glory of the Lord” so that we can be “transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord” (2 Cor. 3:18). We must surrender our lives to the Holy Spirit daily, sometimes moment by moment, so that He can transform our lives.

No matter how broken our thinking or damaged our emotions, God offers us His Holy Spirit to rebuild, restore, and renew us from the inside out. God is big enough to handle all our baggage, wounds, fears, and sensitivities. No mental or emotional mountain is so big that God is unable to help and heal. It should be noted that the brain is not detached from the body; the brain is part of the body. Like other physical illnesses, some mental conditions may not be healed in this life. And yet in every case, God’s grace is sufficient.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What do you want God to do with your mind?`

` `