---
title:  Initial Steps
date:  01/01/2025
---

#### inVite

Through the Scriptures we have considered in this lesson, Jesus invites us to experience a renewed mind through the power of the Holy Spirit. We can respond to Him today by taking three basic steps:

Pray each day for the mind of Christ. Do not let your past failures define you. Allow God to reset your thinking and your impulses. Invite God to give you the mind of Christ through the presence and power of His Holy Spirit. As the apostle Paul wrote, “Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus” (Phil. 2:5). Having the mind of Christ means we think His thoughts and see His perspective. By studying the life of Jesus we learn to think the way that He thought. We become what we focus on. Surrender the mind. We give God room to work inside of us and surrender anything that stands in the way. We ask God to help us give our minds to Him and to influence and direct us. God will never force or coerce us into giving Him our hearts; we must willingly surrender them to Him. Lovingly and respectfully, we must give Him first place in our lives by placing Him on the throne of our hearts and minds. We can do this by praying the prayer of Psalm 51:10: “Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit [or attitude] within me.”Watch and be sober. Watching requires that we are spiritually wide awake, sober-minded, and vigilant (1 Thess. 5:6). This means maintaining a prayerful attitude where we depend on God to be alert to discern the enemy’s approaches. It’s important that we guard the avenues of the soul, that we are aware of what comes through our senses and the impact that it has on us. Faithful watchers avoid anything that would be harmful to their minds. They focus on what is true and good.

It’s important to note that going through these steps doesn’t guarantee that we will immediately feel better or never fall again. God may give us immediate peace, but our minds might remain in a fog or we may still feel uncertain about trusting God. We must not let slow growth disappoint us or bring us down. Progress and recovery are not linear, and as we continue doing what’s right, in time, the feelings will follow. As we obey in faith, supernatural things take place. John shared this when he said, “Whoever keeps His word, truly the love of God is perfected in him” (1 John 2:5). When we step out in faith, grounded in God’s Word and empowered by the Holy Spirit, His love transforms us. He will take personal responsibility for us—we can trust Him!

#### Journal

`Meditate on Romans 12:1–3 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Is there any obstacle preventing you from receiving the mind of Christ more fully? How can you remove the obstacle?`

`Prayer Response:`