---
title:  Setting The Mind on Heavenly Things
date:  02/01/2025
---

#### inSight

“As a safeguard against evil, the preoccupation of the mind with good is worth more than unnumbered barriers of law and discipline” (Ellen G. White, Education [1903], 213).

“No outward observances can take the place of simple faith and entire renunciation of self. But no man can empty himself of self. We can only consent for Christ to accomplish the work. Then the language of the soul will be, Lord, take my heart; for I cannot give it. It is Thy property. Keep it pure, for I cannot keep it for Thee. Save me in spite of myself, my weak, unchristlike self. Mold me, fashion me, raise me into a pure and holy atmosphere, where the rich current of Thy love can flow through my soul” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 159).

“By our making Christ the subject of meditation, He will become the subject of conversation; and by beholding, we will actually be changed into the same image, from glory to glory, even by the Spirit of the Lord. Man, fallen man, may be transformed by the renewing of the mind, so that he can ‘prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.’ How does he prove this? By the Holy Spirit taking possession of his mind, spirit, heart, and character. Where does the proving come in? ‘We are made a spectacle to the world, and to angels, and to men’ (1 Corinthians 4:9)” (Ellen G. White, Ye Shall Receive Power [1995], 50).

“He who loves Christ the most will do the greatest amount of good. There is no limit to the usefulness of one who, by putting self aside, makes room for the working of the Holy Spirit upon his heart, and lives a life wholly consecrated to God. If men will endure the necessary discipline, without complaining or fainting by the way, God will teach them hour by hour, and day by day. He longs to reveal His grace. If His people will remove the obstructions, He will pour forth the waters of salvation in abundant streams through the human channels” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 250, 251).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, what personal applications are you convicted of in your life?`

`What practical applications can you make in your school, family, workplace, or church?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`