---
title:  From War to Victory
date:   07/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Daniel 10:1–21; Ezra 4:1–5; Joshua 5:13–15; Revelation 1:12–18; Colossians 2:15.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then he said, ‘Daniel, don’t be afraid. God loves you very much. Peace be with you. Be strong now, be strong’ ” (Daniel 10:19, ERV).

DANIEL 10 shows us Daniel’s final dream. This dream starts in chapter 10 and continues in Daniel 11 and Daniel 12. From the start, we are told that this dream is “about a great [important] war” (Daniel 10:1, NIrV). Daniel 11 gives us more information about this war. Daniel 10 shows us what this war is about. It is a war between good and evil. Yes, the war in Daniel 10 is fought on earth. But it is a spiritual war too. As we study Daniel 10, we will see that our prayers are important in this war. When we pray, our prayers can change what happens. We are not alone in our fight against evil. Jesus joins us. He fights against Satan for us. In this war, we do not fight only against human powers. We fight against the powers of darkness.

Paul explains this important Bible truth: “Our fight is not against people on earth. We are fighting against the rulers and authorities [leaders] and the powers of this world’s darkness. We are fighting against the spiritual powers of evil in the heavenly places” (Ephesians 6:12, ERV). In the end, our success in this war rests on Jesus. He alone beat Satan at the cross.

We are not alone in our fight against evil. Jesus joins us.
