---
title: Prayer And Eating No Food For A Short Time
date: 3/8/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 10:1–3. What does Daniel do in these verses?`

Daniel does not say why he is very sad. But for sure, Daniel is upset about the Jews. The Jews have left Babylon and gone back to Palestine.

`Read Ezra 4:1–5. What problems do the Jews have when they get home?`

Ezra 4:1–5 shows us that the Jews start to build the temple when they get home. But their enemies try to stop them. The Samaritans send false reports to the Persian king. They lie about the Jews. The king believes the lies. He stops the work the Jews do on the temple. That is why Daniel prays to God. He eats only a little food for three weeks. He asks God to move King Cyrus’s heart. King Cyrus can allow the Jews to start building again.

At this time, Daniel is about 90 years old. Even so, Daniel does not think about his needs. He thinks only about his people and their needs. He prays for three full weeks. He does not give up. During this time, he eats very plain food. Then God answers Daniel’s prayer.

As we look at Daniel’s prayer life, we can learn some important lessons. (1) We should never stop praying. God may not answer us right away. But we should not give up. (2) We should pray for other people. Remember, “after Job had prayed for his friends, God gave him success again” (Job 42:10, ICB). (3) Prayer causes God to do something real and something we can see. So, let us pray always. Let us take everything to God in prayer (Ephesians 6:18).

We should never stop praying. God may not answer us right away. But we should not give up.
