---
title: A Dream About The Prince
date: 3/2/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 10:4–9. What happens to Daniel in these verses?`

In Daniel 10:5, 6, Daniel sees someone who looks the same as the Son of Man (Daniel 7:13). This person wears linen clothes. He is dressed the same as a priest, or religious leader (Leviticus 16:4). He also is the same as the “‘Prince of Princes’” (Daniel 8:25, ERV). The Prince of Princes works to save God’s people in heaven’s temple. The Person Daniel sees in Daniel 10:5, 6 also wears gold the same as a king. He is as bright as lightning, fire, and brass. He has a powerful voice. He is a priest, a king, and an army leader. This person helps us remember the man who appears to Joshua before the war against Jericho (Joshua 5:13, 14). In a dream, Joshua sees the “‘commander [captain] of the Lord’s army’” (Joshua 5:14, ERV). The Hebrew word for “commander,” or captain, is the same word written as “prince” in Daniel 10:21 (ERV).

`Read Joshua 5:13–15 and Revelation 1:12–18. How is the picture of the Son of God in Joshua and in Revelation the same as the picture of God in Daniel 10?`

Daniel tells us what happens to the people who are with him. They do not see what Daniel sees in his dream. But they are afraid anyway. Daniel himself becomes weak. Then he falls on the ground. Daniel’s dream shows that God controls history. As we will see, God tells Daniel the things that will happen in human history from Daniel’s time to God’s kingdom (Daniel 11 and Daniel 12).

The Person Daniel sees in Daniel 10:5, 6 wears gold the same as a king. He is as bright as lightning, fire, and brass. He is a priest, a king, and an army leader.
