---
title:  The Angel Touches Daniel
date:   10/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about Daniel and the angel in Daniel 10:10–19. What happens each time the angel touches Daniel?`

The light coming from God causes Daniel to fall to the ground. Then an angel touches Daniel and comforts him. As we read the story, the angel touches Daniel three times.

The first touch helps Daniel to stand up. Then he can hear the message from heaven: “‘Daniel, do not be afraid. From the very first day you decided to get wisdom and to be humble [not proud] in front of God, he has been listening to your prayers. I came to you because you have been praying’” (Daniel 10:12, ERV). Daniel’s prayer moves God’s heart in heaven. So, we can see that God hears our prayers. We can trust God to help us in times of trouble too.

The second touch helps Daniel to talk. He tells the Lord what is in his heart: “‘Sir, I am upset and afraid because of what I saw in the vision. I feel helpless. Sir, I am Daniel your servant. How can I talk with you? My strength is gone and it is hard for me to breathe’” (Daniel 10:16, 17, ERV). What does this part of Daniel’s story show us? God wants to talk to us, yes. But God also wants us to tell Him about our feelings, needs, and hopes.

The third touch makes Daniel strong. Daniel is weak. So, the angel touches Daniel. The angel gives Daniel comfort and peace: “ ‘Daniel, don’t be afraid. God loves you very much. Peace be with you. Be strong now, be strong’ ” (Daniel 10:19, ERV). Remember, God sent the angel to Daniel in answer to Daniel’s prayers. So, the dream in Daniel 11 is part of God’s answer to Daniel’s prayer too. God gives Daniel the dream to encourage him. Daniel has been very sad about his people. Now God gives Daniel peace. We also can have this peace in hard times. God’s loving touch helps us to look to the future with hope.

“In everyday life, heaven may be very near.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 48, adapted. How will you live if you keep this truth alive in your heart and mind?

God sent the angel to Daniel in answer to Daniel’s prayers.
