---
title: The Big War
date: 3/11/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`What is shown to Daniel in Daniel 10:20, 21?`

The angel shows Daniel the war between good and evil that happens all during human history. As soon as Daniel starts to pray, a spiritual war starts between heaven and earth. Angels from heaven work on the king of Persia’s heart. Heaven’s angels try to convince the king to let the Jews continue to rebuild the temple. Daniel 10 shows us that the king of Persia is Cyrus. He fights against heaven’s angels. A human king is not strong enough to stand on his own against an angel from heaven. So, we know that evil angels make the king’s heart stubborn. That is why King Cyrus stops the Jews from rebuilding the temple.

We see the same thing happen with the king of Tyre in Ezekiel 28. The king of Tyre is a word picture for Satan. Satan is the power behind the human king in the city of Tyre. So, we should not be surprised that the kings of Persia include Satan and his angels. Michael, or Jesus, comes to fight against these evil powers.

`Read about the fight in Daniel 10:13. What happens in this fight?`

“Satan works hard. He causes the leaders in the kingdom of Media-Persia not to help God’s people. At the same time, angels from heaven work hard to help God’s people. All heaven is interested in this fight between good and evil. Daniel shows us what happens in this fight between good and evil. For three weeks, the angel Gabriel fights with the powers of darkness. Gabriel tries to stop the evil powers at work on Cyrus’s heart. Before the fight ends, Jesus Himself comes to help Gabriel.

‘“But the prince of Persia has been fighting against me for 21 days. Then Michael, one of the most important princes, came to help me because I was stuck there with the king of Persia”’ (Daniel 10:13, ERV). Heaven does everything that can be done to help God’s people. Heaven wins the war.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 571, 572, adapted.

As soon as Daniel starts to pray, a spiritual war starts between heaven and earth.
