---
title: The Prince Wins
date: 3/5/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The most important Person in the book of Daniel is the “Son of Man” (Daniel 7:13, NKJV). He also is named “God, the commander [captain] of heaven’s armies” (Daniel 8:11, ICB). Later, we learn that His name is Michael (Daniel 10:13). Michael means “Who is like God?” Michael comes to help Gabriel in the war with the king of Persia (Daniel 10:13). Gabriel tells Daniel that this Person from heaven is named “Michael your prince” (Daniel 10:21, KJV). So, Michael is the Prince of God’s people. Later in the book of Daniel, Michael is the One who stands for God’s people (Daniel 12:1). Jude 1:9 shows us that Michael is the top angel in heaven. He fights against Satan and wakes Moses up from the dead. Revelation 12:7 shows us that Michael is the leader of heaven’s army. Michael and this army beat Satan and his evil angels. So, Michael is Jesus. The kingdom of Persia has a top leader who stands behind the king. This leader is a spiritual power. It is Satan himself. God’s people also have a top leader. He is Michael, their Captain. He fights for them. He wins the war against evil for them too.

`Read Colossians 2:15. How has Jesus won the war against good and evil for us?`

We also must fight against evil on this earth. As we do, we can have faith in Jesus. He beats Satan when He starts His work for God on earth. Yes, Jesus beats Satan in the desert. Jesus also fights against demons during His work on earth. Jesus frees His people from the power of the devil. Jesus’ final words to His followers show that His death also is part of the war against evil. Jesus’ death is another win against Satan. “ ‘Now the ruler [leader] of [on] this world [earth] will be thrown out. I will be lifted up from the earth. When that happens, I will draw all people to myself’ ” (John 12:31, 32, ERV).

Sometimes we look at life around us. Things look very bad. Yes, an enemy fights against us. This enemy is not made of flesh and blood. But Jesus fights for us. He stands for us as our Prince and Holy Leader in heaven’s temple.

Michael and heaven’s army beat Satan and his evil angels.
