---
title: Additional Thought
date: 3/13/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

“For three weeks, the angel Gabriel fights with the powers of darkness. Gabriel tries to stop the evil powers at work on Cyrus’s heart. . . . Heaven does everything that can be done to help God’s people. Heaven wins the war. Jesus and His angels stop Satan and his evil angel for as long as Cyrus is king and during the time of Cyrus’s son Cambyses too.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 572, adapted.

“God shows a lot of honor to His servant Daniel. Daniel is very afraid. So, God comforts Daniel. God tells Daniel that his prayer has been heard in heaven. Then God answers Daniel’s prayer. God sends Gabriel to work on the heart of the king of Persia. The king refuses to listen to God’s Spirit for three weeks. During that whole time Daniel prays and does not eat much food. Then Heaven’s Prince, Michael, goes to King Cyrus. Michael works on Cyrus’s stubborn heart. This work happens because of Daniel’s prayer.”—Ellen G. White, The Sanctified Life, page 51, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe in the worldwide war between good and evil. We believe that all heaven is part of this big war between Jesus and Satan. We also believe that every human also is part of this war. Many people who are not religious also believe there is a war going on between good and evil on this earth. What has been your experience in this war? How has it changed your life? What have you learned? How can your experience encourage and help other people in this war?`

`2. Read Ephesians 6:10–18. Paul talks about a battle suit. What does Paul tell us to do in these verses to win the war against evil?`

`3. Twice the angel says to Daniel, “ ‘God loves you very much’ ” (Daniel 10:11; Daniel 9:23, ERV). What do the angel’s words tell us about the close tie between heaven and earth? How does it show us that God loves His people very much? What is the Bible’s view of humans? What about people who do not believe in God? What is their view of humans? Compare these two views. How are they different? What hope does the Bible view give you?`

Jesus and Gabriel stop the evil powers at work on King Cyrus’s heart.
