---
title:  Victory and Defeat
date:  01/06/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 12:10–17**

**Victory and Defeat**

During Napoleon’s invasion of Russia in 1812, the Russian army employed what’s known as the scorched earth policy to deprive Napoleon’s Grande Armée of resources. As they retreated further into their territory, Russian forces burned crops, destroyed infrastructure, and evacuated towns, leaving nothing behind for the French army to use. This approach significantly weakened the French forces, ultimately leading to their disastrous retreat and eventual defeat. Though this is one of the most well-known uses of this strategy, the Russians are not the only ones who have utilized it.

When Jesus gained victory over death and forced Satan to retreat, Satan employed his own ferocious scorched earth policy on the church. The triumph brought by Jesus’ life, death, resurrection, and ascension delivered a fatal blow to Satan and his rebellion; he was a defeated enemy who became filled with “great wrath, because he knows that he has a short time” (Rev. 12:12). Christianity rapidly spread throughout the known world, but not without facing extreme opposition. Satan was unwilling to yield any ground without a severe fight and consequently focused on inflicting as much damage as possible on God’s people and mission. If he went down, he wanted to burn everything with him—scorch the earth! The book of Acts records some of the stonings, imprisonments, and beatings that the early church faced at the hands of angry mobs and hostile authorities. Satan did everything he could to keep the gospel from spreading. He knows that God feels deep sadness and pain for every person lost, for each one of them has a special, irreplaceable spot in His heart.

We should be thankful that God didn’t go on vacation after salvation was secured at Calvary. Instead, Jesus continued His work on the earth through the Holy Spirit. The many conflicts in the two thousand years that followed Calvary are a testament to the intense fight over the continued success and mission that Jesus began on earth. This lesson will delve into the dynamics of the great controversy after Jesus returned to heaven, aiming to understand how God provided and continues to provide victory for His people.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 12:10–17 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 11 and 17. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._