---
title:  Divine Light Amid Dark Ages
date:  02/06/2024
---

#### inGest

Revelation 12 warned God’s people that the true church would suffer centuries of persecution and would have to flee into the remote parts of the earth to escape total annihilation. However, it also promised that no matter how intense the persecution would become, God would always preserve His church from being completely destroyed (v. 14).

The first major persecution against Christians began about three and a half years after Pentecost. Saul, later known as Paul, was notorious for how many Christians he harassed and arrested during that time (Acts 8:3; 9:13, 26), but later he converted to Christianity and became the leading missionary and church planter in Europe as well as the most prolific author of the New Testament. His zealous preaching of the gospel made him the target of severe hostility and persecution, which eventually led to his imprisonment and execution in Rome. Over the following centuries, millions more paid the ultimate price for their faith and “did not love their lives to the death” (Rev. 12:11).

In the fourth century, Christians began to persecute other Christians for the first time. The church in Rome asserted the right to dictate what churches in other cities could teach and practice. During this time, church dogma was widely enforced by the state and dissenters were hunted down and punished. Though this time of Roman domination was very difficult for Bible-believing Christians, God provided a way for the truth to be safeguarded and passed on through groups such as the early Irish-Scottish Christians and the Waldenses. In the early days, the first Christians on the British Isles experienced minimal Roman influence due to their distance from Italy and used this relative safety to train and send missionaries to the rest of Europe. For centuries, the Waldenses took shelter in the remote mountain regions of Northern Italy, similarly secluded, and sent young missionaries to surrounding countries. The Waldenses suffered several massacres at the hands of crusading Catholic armies, but such pockets of faithful Christians kept Bible truth alive until brave men such as Wycliffe, Huss, Jerome, Luther, and Zwingli ushered in the Reformation. At this point, the people began slowly rediscovering Bible truth and the influence and power of the papacy decreased. These two changes culminated in the “deadly wound” of 1798 (Rev. 13:3), when Pope Pius VI was arrested and imprisoned by Napoleon’s general Louis Berthier.

Just as the Italian Alps and remote British Isles provided wilderness shelters to earlier believers, so the discovery of the Americas presented a new wilderness in which persecuted believers could find refuge and freedom of religion away from the overreaching papacy and monarchy. “The earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon had spewed out of his mouth” (Rev. 12:16). God kept His hand over both His Word and His people. Yes, many paid the ultimate price, but to this day, their blood provides the opportunity for millions more to hear the gospel.

Journal:

`How does knowing that God can turn trials into blessings embolden your missionary work?`

`What would you be willing to risk for God’s Word and the free exercise of faith?`