---
title:  At-one-ment
date:  26/08/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 16:1–28**

**At-one-ment**

There is hardly a word more beautiful in all of Scripture than “atonement.” It is without question one of God’s major values in the book of Leviticus (it appears nearly fifty times!) and we should be overjoyed because of it.

Atonement means that not only are you forgiven for something you have done against another, but your sin is covered completely and your relationship restored with no lingering guilt and shame. The New Living Translation brings this meaning out the best: “Lay your hand on the animal’s head, and the Lord will accept its death in your place to purify you, making you right with him” (Lev. 1:4). In Leviticus 4, it adds that we are forgiven as well (v. 20). Atonement means at least three things: you are purified, forgiven, and made right with God.

Have you ever forgiven someone for harming you but never really trusted them again? In other words, you gave forgiveness, but real friendship was no longer an option? This is not atonement! Atonement brings two parties that were divided back together as one, as if they were never parted in the first place. In other words, it includes forgiveness but offers much more: a restored friendship with God.

The Hebrew word for atonement means “to appease, pacify, cover, and cleanse,” so atonement is having your sins cleansed and covered so perfectly that your once broken relationship with God is restored completely (Sidney Greidanus, Preaching Christ From Leviticus: Foundations for Expository Sermons [William B. Eerdmans Pub. Co., 2011], p. 49). Jesus died so we could receive these gifts of eternal life, forgiveness, purity, and restored relationship with God.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 16:1–28 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 16:16. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `