---
title:  Of Goats and Garbage
date:  27/08/2023
---

#### inGest

God wants to make our broken relationship with Him (Isa. 59:2) completely whole again. This is the meaning behind the beautiful word “atonement” in the book of Leviticus. God doesn’t just want to forgive you for your sins—He also wants to bring you back as a close and dear friend. In John 15:15 He actually calls us “friends”—how awesome is that!

In Leviticus 16 we find the word atonement used several times in conjunction with descriptions of Yom Kippur, which literally means “Day of Atonement.” This was the most important day in an Israelite’s life. It was considered a solemn day because God would draw near to judge Israel for their sins. All year long the people had confessed their sins upon their sacrificial offerings, and those sins, by way of the blood and the food the priests ate, were carried into the sanctuary (Lev. 4:13–18). This meant the sanctuary became a receptacle for all the lawbreaking (sin) the people had done throughout the year. By the time the Day of Atonement arrived, the sanctuary was in need of some serious cleansing. The Day of Atonement was the day God came to take away all the garbage of sin that had been defiling the sanctuary. This was therefore a very special day for serious heart searching, prayer, fasting, and rest (Lev. 16:29, 31).

After washing and dressing in the prescribed clothes as all Israel waited in anticipation and hope, the high priest made sacrifices for his own sins and took two goats, one of which represented Jesus, whose death on the cross would atone for the sins of Israel and for the whole world (Lev. 16:4–9; Heb. 9:12; 1 John 2:2). The other goat represented Satan, who would ultimately be executed for being the original deceiver, accuser, liar, and murderer. After sacrificing the first goat, the high priest entered the Holy Place. Then, carefully and reverently, surrounded by the smoke from the incense, the high priest went into the Most Holy Place and sprinkled the blood seven times on the “mercy seat,” which was the cover of the ark of the covenant and where God’s presence hovered in the temple (Lev. 16:2, 12–15). When he did this, all of Israel’s sins were atoned for (Lev. 16:16).

Even though they had broken the law of God, which was kept in the ark of the covenant (Exod. 25:16, 21, 22), and even though God was ready to dispense justice for all who had broken His commands, the blood placed on the mercy seat between God and His broken law was a pledge, a symbol of Jesus’ atoning death for the sins of the world. God’s just wrath was stopped, and His people were made one with Him again. Then the high priest went out of the tabernacle, symbolically carrying the sins of Israel upon himself, and laid both hands on the head of the second goat, called the scapegoat, therefore transferring to it the guilt and garbage of sin (Lev. 16:20–22). Then a man chosen specifically for the task led the goat and all the sins of Israel into the wilderness (vv. 21, 22), leaving it there to wander, as Satan will before the final judgment (Lev. 16:10, 11, 21, 22; Rev. 20). The sanctuary was cleansed and God’s people were cleared.

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What does the Day of Atonement mean in your life?`

`What emotions do you think were the Israelites going through on the morning of the Day of Atonement?`