---
title:  Forgiveness and Atonement
date:  28/08/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Some may wonder why there needed to be a Day of Atonement if atonement was already offered to God’s people throughout the year (Lev. 1:4; 4; 5). Did they need to be forgiven and atoned for twice? The answer to this important question is found by carefully comparing Leviticus 4 and 16.

For each sin offering in Leviticus 4, the sins that were transferred to the lamb were taken into the tabernacle or courtyard by the blood of the sacrifice (vv. 5, 16, 25, 30). The blood was a visible and smelly reminder to all that sin had taken place in the camp and that death occurred as a result of the sin. Every time the priest sprinkled blood in the sanctuary it freshened the odor of death—the death that had been demanded by the law that was residing nearby in the ark of the covenant.

When blood from a sacrifice was not carried into the Holy Place, the sacrifice was eaten by the priest and the priest symbolically carried the sin into the Holy Place (Lev. 10:16–20). Whether through the sprinkling of blood or through the eating of the sacrifice by the priest, the Holy Place was polluted by the continual reminder or record of sins coming into the sanctuary from the daily sacrifices.

Every day, any sinner who brought a sacrifice was granted full and immediate forgiveness with the promise of atonement (Lev. 4:20, 26, 31, 35). After the daily sacrifice is offered no additional forgiveness is needed; the forgiveness offered through the daily sacrifice is complete and whole. However, atonement is incomplete until the Day of Atonement. While the daily service in Leviticus 4 promises forgiveness and atonement (vv. 20, 26, 31, 35), the yearly service on the Day of Atonement in Leviticus 16 promises cleansing and atonement (vv. 19, 30). In Leviticus, atonement is illustrated as a two-step process: forgiveness and cleansing. Forgiveness + Cleansing = Atonement. The forgiveness part of atonement was supplied through the daily sacrifice described in Leviticus 4. The cleansing part of atonement was supplied through the yearly Day of Atonement described in Leviticus 16. Together, both forgiveness and cleansing completed the atonement. The Day of Atonement made the people’s atonement complete.

This two-step process of the atonement is also affirmed in the New Testament when John writes, “If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9). Notice that the ministry of Jesus offers both forgiveness and cleansing distinctively.

One important question is why are the two steps of forgiveness and cleansing separated? Why couldn’t sin and the record of sin be immediately cleansed when sin was forgiven? One answer is found in Ezekiel 18:24 and Matthew 18:27, 32–35. These two passages teach that it is possible for some to seek forgiveness without having a sincere heart. For these people there is no real repentance and therefore no real change in their lives. It is also possible for some who are truly repentant at first to later “repent of their repentance” by failing to change how they live (M. L. Andreasen, The Sanctuary Service [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 2007], p. 178). Sins will be completely erased (cleansed) from the record (Isaiah 44:22) once destinies have been fixed and there is no turning back. Forgiveness of sin is available today! Cleansing of sin is promised in due time! In dealing with sin and saving sinners, God has chosen the process that is most fair, merciful, and just!

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why is it so important to keep our spiritual leaders in prayer? What should we pray for them?`