---
title:  How to Remove Guilt
date:  30/08/2023
---

#### inVite

Maybe you are currently carrying a heavy burden of guilt and condemnation. Maybe it’s so heavy that you’re ready to give up on ministry, church, or even life itself. I have good news for you: Jesus wants to take away all your guilt and condemnation. He wants to atone (cover) for your sins and make you pure, right with God, and forgiven! Unlike the blood of animals, the blood of Jesus can even erase your condemning thoughts and soothe your tortured conscience (Heb. 9:13, 14; Rom. 8:1).

The gospel according to Leviticus reveals how to remove guilt, teaching that a person must first realize their guilt. There are four ways this happens: conviction of the Holy Spirit (John 16:7–11), the conscience (Rom. 2:12–16), studying the Word of God (Heb. 4:12, 13), and the preaching and teaching of the Word (Acts 2:36, 37). Interestingly, Leviticus 5:17 tells us it’s possible to be guilty of a sin and not know it! It is so important that we tell people the truth in love and don’t turn a blind eye to their sin—because if we don’t, they are robbed of a reason to run to Christ for forgiveness. This also reveals that our conscience is not always trustworthy (Titus 1:15). Sometimes it misses things or has become so corrupt by our violations of the law that it no longer sounds the alarm, and we no longer feel any guilt. We must spend time in the Word daily to avoid this sad state; to keep our consciences sharp and informed by God’s law. Additionally, we should look for preachers and teachers who tell the truth about sin and not just what our “itching ears want to hear” (2 Tim. 4:3, NLT). On the other hand, we should also be aware of individuals who try to convict us of sins we are not personally guilty of. It is becoming more and more common for some to lay blame where blame is not deserved. Always let the Holy Spirit inform you; do not take guilt or condemnation on yourself when it is not warranted.

Once we have become aware of our sins, the Bible requires us to confess them (Lev. 5:5). In other words, we should acknowledge the specific ways we have hurt God or those around us. This is not a time to make excuses or try to justify what we have done; it is a time to recognize the ways we have broken God’s law and violated our relationship with Him.

Next, we must by faith lay our sins upon Jesus, who is our substitute. When we lay our sins upon Him, we are trusting that His one-time death was enough to cover our sins completely and restore our relationship to God (provide atonement). But what if you don’t feel it? The good news about forgiveness and atonement is that they are based on God’s promises, not our emotions. The feelings of peace, joy, and assurance will come, but only as we trust our God—who literally cannot lie! Trusting God’s promises comes first. The feelings will come later as our knowledge and understanding of God’s honest character and Jesus’ gospel grows deeper.

Under the old covenant, the Israelites looked forward to Jesus’ death with hope, but under the new covenant, we look back at the cross with confidence! As we’ve discovered in other lessons, the blood of the animal sacrifices in Leviticus could save the sinner only if they pointed him or her to the blood of Jesus. Nothing but the blood of Christ could save the Israelites, and so, too, nothing but the blood of Christ can save you and me (Heb. 10:4).

**Meditate on Leviticus 16:1–28 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you personally through these texts?`

`How does the knowledge that we live under the new covenant affect your walk with God?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`