---
title:  I See, I Want, I Take
date:   06/01/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Corinthians 8:1–7; Matthew 13:3–7, 22; Genesis 3:1–6; Isaiah 56:11. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘And what about the seed that fell among the thorny weeds?That [seed] is like [the same as] the people who hear the teaching but let worries about this life and love for money stop it from growing. So it does not produce a crop in their lives’ ” (Matthew 13:22, ERV). 

A LOVE FOR MONEY and the things on this earth will try to take control of us in any way possible.Ellen G.White describes how Satan orders his evil angels to take control of us: “ ‘Go. Make landowners and the rich feel heavy with the worries of this life. Make this life seem very beautiful to them so that they will save up their treasure here.Then they will set their love on thethings of this earth.Wemust do ourbesttostopthose who do God’s work from getting money to use against us. Make sure the money stays on our side.The other side must not get more riches, because they will have more power to hurt our kingdom.Then they will take from us the people who serve us. So, let us make the people who are against us care more for money than for building up Jesus’ kingdom and spreading the truths we hate. Then we will not need to fear their power. We know that every selfish person will come under our power and finally be separated from God’s people.’ ”—Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Managing wisely the gifts God gives us], pages 154, 155, adapted. 

The devil’s clever trick seems to be working well. Let us learn what the Bible says about the dangers of loving riches.