---
title:  Giving to get
date:   07/01/2018
---

A popular TV preacher spreads this simple message: God wants to bless us. The proof of His blessing can be seen in the amount of things we own. 

This idea is called the “prosperity gospel.” Prosperity is another word for success. The word gospel means Good News. So then, the prosperity gospel is the good news that obeying God will make you rich in this life. But this gospel is false. It is a way to use religion as an excuse to chase after riches. What the prosperity gospel is really saying to us is: “Hey, do you want to desire riches and the goods of this life and feel great about it? Well then, we have the ‘gospel’ for you!” 

We must not connect the Good News with the hope of getting riches. The problem with this idea is the problem behind all sin. That problem is self and the desire to please self first before God and helping other people. 

The prosperity gospel teaches that we give to get something. But this idea makes God the same as a vending machine.A vending machine is a machine with food, drinks, and other things. You put money into this machine to buy them. What is worse, this teaching makes our connection with God just a business deal. It is the same as saying to God: “I do something for You. And You promise to do something for me.” Followers of the prosperity gospel do not give because it is the right thing to do. They give because of the things they expect to get from God. 

`What important rules do we find in 2 Corinthians 8:1–7 that go against the idea of giving to get? What does Paul mean by “this gift of giving” (2 Corinthians 8:7, ICB)?` 

The people Paul talks about “are very poor” (2 Corinthians 8:2, ICB). But they are unselfish. They give more than they have. These verses help to prove that the teachings of the prosperity gospel are false. This false gospel teaches a wrong idea. It teaches that those living right with God will have lots of riches and belongings. 

`What examples in the Bible or from history can you find of people who are both loyal to God and poor? What examples can you find of people who are not loyal to God and are rich? What should these examples tell us about not pointing to money as proof that God blesses us?`