---
title:  Fuzzy spiritual eyesight
date:   08/01/2018
---

Our worries about this life and our riches last a short time. Christians become nearsighted when they worry about the problems of this life. Instead, Christians should set their thoughts on the path to heaven. But the desire for riches can blind their spiritual eyesight to that path. Helen Keller said, “A person who can see but who has no understanding is someone we should feel sorry for more than anyone else on earth.”—Adapted. Helen Keller was deaf and blind. But her mind could “see” better than most people who were not blind. The Bible is full of stories of people who could see with their eyes but not with their minds. 

“Some people love this life so much that it destroys their love for the truth. Their treasures here grow larger. At the same time, their interest in heaven becomes less. They save up more and more of this earth’s things. The more they get, then the more they hug this life to them.They want these belongings so badly. They seem to be afraid that the things they want will be taken from them. They get more and more. But they have less to give to others. Oh! Riches and their false promises: people who love riches will not see and feel the needs of Christians who do God’s work.” —Ellen G.White, Spiritual Gifts, volume 2, page 267, adapted. 

Having “fuzzy” spiritual eyesight puts our everlasting life in danger. It is not enough to have Jesus in our view. We must be able to see Him clearly too. 

`Read Matthew 13:3–7, 22. What danger does Jesus warn us about here? Why is this trap so easy to fall into?` 

Jesus warns against “the worries about this life and love of [for] money” (Matthew 13:22, ICB). Jesus knows we all have worries. We worry about money. The poor worry that they do not have enough. The rich worry about how much more money they can get. We must not let these worries push God’s truth out of our lives (Matthew 13:22). 

Jesus also warns us against “the false promises of [riches]” (Matthew 13:22, NIrV). Riches are not evil. But they have the power to lead us to complete ruin. 

`How have your worries about this life and your love for money led to problems in your own life? What choices can you make each day to protect yourself from these traps?`