---
title:  Wanting what you do not have
date:   09/01/2018
---

All sins begin in the heart. The same is true with the sins of greed and coveting. Greed is the sin of wanting too much. Coveting is the sin of wanting things you do not have. Coveting is also wanting something that belongs to someone else. Adam and Eve wanted too much in the Garden of Eden. Coveting the fruit led to their fall into sin. 

`Read Genesis 3:1–6.What did Satan do to lead Eve into sin? How has Satan used this trick to lead us into sin too?` 

“The woman saw that the tree was beautiful. She saw that its fruit was good to eat and that it would make her wise. So she took some of its fruit and ate it. She also gave some of the fruit to her husband” (Genesis 3:6, ICB). 

It is easy to believe that many businesses use the Eden story as an example of how to sell their things! First, Satan showed the fruit from the forbidden tree to Eve. Then Satan led Eve to want more than she already had. Satan made Eve think she needed something she did not need. What a sneaky trick! Eve’s fall into sin shows that she made three wrong choices. Each of us who wants too much also makes these wrong choices: (1) We see something we should not have. (2) We want it badly. (3) We take it. 

Wanting things that do not belong to us is a very sneaky sin. Covetousness often makes us behave the same way that sins dealing with sex do. How? Both sins can be kept secret.But both sins ruin us in the end.They damage our connection to people. They hurt our loved ones. Hiding these sins “beats us up” with guilt too. 

The sin of wanting things that do not belong to us can cause us to ignore important rules. Just look at what happened when King Ahab saw Naboth’s grape garden. Ahab wanted it badly. He refused to be happy until he owned it.Ahab’s evil queen ordered the murder of Naboth so Ahab could take Naboth’s grape garden (1 Kings 21). Another example is the story about Achan (Joshua 7:20–22). Wanting what does not belong to us is a sin. 

`Why is it so important to check to see if there is any selfishness in our hearts? What should we do if we find it?`