---
title:  Wanting to have things your way
date:   10/01/2018
---

`What sin does Isaiah 56:11 warn about?` 

Yesterday, we learned that greed is the selfish desire to have more of something than we need. Greed is easy for us to feel because we are sinners. Greed stops us from showing God’s love. “You know of the loving-favor shown by our Lord Jesus Christ. He was rich, but He became poor for your good. In that way, because He became poor, you might become rich” (2 Corinthians 8:9, NLV). 

God alone knows how much pain greed has caused in the past. Greed has led to wars. Greed has caused people to break God’s law. Later, their crimes brought ruin on them and their families. Greed often acts in the same way as a disease that causes death. This type of disease “eats up” a body until all that is left is sickness. In the same way, greed eats up everything that is good and holy in a person until only greed is left. Greed is a sickness. It makes a person want everything from power to riches. 

`Read the story found in Matthew 26:14–16. What can we learn from this story about the power of greed?` 

Notice what Judas says: “ ‘I will give Jesus to you. What will you pay me for doing this?’ ” (ICB). This verse shows us a powerful example of greed taking control of a person’s life. God showed Judas His loving-favor in a big way. Judas lived with Jesus after Jesus came to this earth in a human body. Judas saw all the miracles Jesus did. Judas heard Jesus preach the words of life. But what did Judas do? Judas loved money too much. So, he gave Jesus to people who hated Him and who put Him to death. 

“Look at how loving and gentle the Savior is to Judas! Jesus showed Judas it was evil to want more than you need. Jesus taught that it was important to be kind and to care for other people. Caring for people and showing them kindness helps us not to be selfish. Many times, Judas understood that Jesus showed him the evil inside his heart. But Judas would not tell Jesus His sin or stop what he was doing.” —Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 295, adapted. 

`How can God’s loving-favor stop greed from taking control of our lives?`