---
title:  Having control over one’s self
date:   11/01/2018
---

**Christians must guard against the love of money and wanting to own the things on this earth. Christians also must protect their minds from wanting things that do not belong to them. They must reject the sin of wanting too much. How do the verses below help us understand how we can protect ourselves from the dangers of wanting too much?** 

`Acts 24:24–26` 

`Galatians 5:22–25` 

`2 Peter 1:5–9` 

These Bible verses are full of deep meaning. They are filled with many commands from God about how we are to live. But one important idea connects them all together: the power to control self. It can be very hard to control self when we want so badly to own many nice things. But we must control what we think and do. Then God will protect us from the dangers of wanting too much and wanting things that do not belong to us. 

But we must give ourselves to the Lord and His power. He will give us control over what we think and do. We need His help to win the battle over the sins of wanting too much and the love for money. Many of us love money and give in to the sins of wanting too much and taking things that do not belong to us. It is not easy to give up these sins. That is why we need the Holy Spirit’s power in our lives. He alone will free us from the devil’s powerful lies that make us forget God. The Bible promises us: “You have never been tempted [led to feel the desire to give in] to sin in any different way than other people. God is faithful [dependable and able to be trusted]. He will not allow you to be tempted [feel the desire to do wrong] more than you can take [are able to accept]. But when you are tempted, He will make a way for you to keep from falling into sin” (1 Corinthians 10:13, NLV). 

`We fight greed. Greed is the selfish desire for more and more. We also fight covetousness. Covetousness is the sin of wanting things we do not have or things that belong to someone else.What does Peter point to in 2 Peter 1:5–9 to help us fight greed and covetousness?`