---
title:  Additional thought
date:   12/01/2018
---

The biggest desire that most people have is to be happy and satisfied. But trying to be satisfied by money and power will not bring happiness. People in their hearts know that this fact is true. But what do they do? They continue to want more and more anyway. 

Seventh-day Adventists also must fight this desire for more and more. Satan tries to lead us to love money and power more than we love God. But owning more and more things will not make us happy or satisfied. Instead, the love for riches and power causes problems. Just look at the rich young ruler. He turned away from Jesus. He was unhappy because he thought his life was fine. But Jesus did not tell the rich young ruler the things he wanted to hear or give him what he wanted. “Wanting too much and a desire for riches more than spiritual things causes illness. In fact, selfishness can cause a person to feel very sad and worried. It even can cause health problems. Headaches are one example. The love for riches even can cause someone not to want to be with other people. It can cause him to believe he is greater than others.”—Tim Kasser, The High [Expensive] Price of Materialism [a desire for money and power more than spiritual things] (Cambridge, MA: the MIT Press, 2002), page 22, adapted. 

Christians who love money more than they love spiritual things are drinking from the “well of riches.” Their hearts stay “thirsty.” But we never will thirst for more when we drink from the water Jesus gives (John 4:14). 

**Discussion questions**: 

`1 In Sunday’s lesson study, we learned about people who give to get. What verses might be used by people who believe this idea? What stories can you find in the Bible that show how false this teaching is?` 

`2 The father of a young child said, “I learned two important Bible truths from my child. First, we are born sinners. Second, we are born wanting more than we should.” How does this story show our need for God’s power to protect us against selfish desire?` 

`3 Why is the selfish desire for more than we need very harmful to us and those around us? What stories can you think of that show how one person’s selfish desire hurt and harmed others?`