---
title:  What Makes the Bible Special?
date:   28/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Deuteronomy 32:45–47; Amos 7:14; Genesis 49:8–12; 1 Corinthians 15:3–5, 51–55.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Your word [the Bible] is like a lamp that shows me the way. It [the Bible] is like a light that guides me” (Psalm 119:105, NIrV).

THE BIBLE has 66 books. The Bible was written more than 1,500 years ago. It was written by men who lived in Asia, Africa, and Europe. There is no other book that is as special as the Bible. And no wonder. The Bible is the Word of God!

Did you know that there are more than 24,600 copies of the New Testament? Wow! Those are a lot of copies! These copies were made in the 400 years that passed after Jesus went back to heaven. There are only seven copies of Plato’s writings. Plato was a Greek thinker who lived during Old Testament times. There are eight copies of Herodotus’s writings. Herodotus was a Greek writer who wrote about history during Old Testament times. So, you can see that we have many more copies of the Bible. All these copies help us to trust what the Bible says.

The Bible was the first book to be written in many different languages. Today, 95% of the people on the earth can read the Bible in their own language. The Bible is different from any other book. It shows us God’s work in the past to save humans from sin. It also shows us God’s future plan for humans and His everlasting kingdom. The Bible is filled with God’s Spirit. The same Spirit that helped men write the Bible (2 Timothy 3:16, 17) helps us to understand Bible truth (John 14:16, 17; John 15:26; John 16:13).

_The same Spirit that helped men write the Bible helps us to understand Bible truth._
