---
title:  THE BIBLE IS ALIVE
date:   29/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Sometimes the most important words a person says are his last words in this life. We can see this important idea in Moses’ writings. Moses sings an important song to God’s people before he dies (Deuteronomy 31:30–32:43).

`Read Moses’ words in Deuteronomy 32:45–47. At this time, the Hebrew people are ready to enter the Promised Land. What does Moses say to them about the Bible? What does Moses tell them about the Bible’s power to change their lives?`

Moses’ last words are powerful. He gives strong advice to God’s people. Moses tells the Hebrews to follow God’s words with all their hearts. The people should keep their hearts filled with God’s words too. Then they will follow God’s plan for their lives. God’s people also must teach God’s words to their children. Then every new child will grow up knowing God’s plan to save His people. Do you see that Moses tells God’s people not to pick and choose which words they will follow? God’s people must “be careful to obey all the words of this law” (Deuteronomy 32:46, NIrV).

At the end of this earth’s history, God will have a group of people who will be loyal to the Bible. This group will obey all God’s commandments. They also will have the faith of Jesus (Revelation 14:12). This group will follow Bible teachings. The Bible helps us have a better life now. The Bible also helps us get ready for the home that Jesus makes for us in heaven (John 14:1–3).

`Read John 1:1–5, 14 and John 14:6. How do these verses teach us about Jesus and everlasting life? Jesus became a man and lived on the earth. How does this Bible truth show us that we can trust what the Bible tells us?`

Jesus became a man. Jesus lived, died, and lives again. The Old Testament promised us Jesus would. We see the Bible is right about Jesus. So, we can trust the Bible’s promise about everlasting life.

_The Bible helps us get ready for the home that Jesus makes for us in heaven (John 14:1–3)._
