---
title:  WHO WROTE THE BIBLE, AND WHERE WAS IT WRITTEN?
date:   30/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible was written by a lot of different men from different places. This shows us that God wants Bible truth to touch as many different people as possible.

`Read Exodus 2:10; Amos 7:14; Jeremiah 1:1–6; Daniel 6:1–5; Matthew 9:9; Philippians 3:3–6; and Revelation 1:9. What do these verses show us about the Bible writers?`

Some Bible writers wrote from kings’ homes. Other writers wrote from prisons. Some Bible writers were sent away to live alone. They wrote from lonely islands. Other writers wrote while they took trips to share the Good News about Jesus. These men had different jobs and educations. Moses was raised from a baby to be a king. Daniel was trained to serve in a top job in Babylon. Other Bible writers were shepherds. Some Bible writers were very young. Other Bible writers were very old. But one thing was the same about all of them. God gave them special work to do. The Holy Spirit led these men to write messages for God’s people.

Some of the Bible writers saw the things they wrote about happen. Some Bible writers studied the writings of other Bible writers (Joshua 10:13; Luke 1:1–3). But all parts of the Bible are filled with God’s Spirit. He led men to write down His thoughts and ideas. That is why Paul says, “Everything that was written in the past was written to teach us. Those things were written so that we could have hope” (Romans 15:4, ERV).

“God chose to communicate His truth to humans. God Himself, by His Holy Spirit, gave these men skill to write His messages. He helped these men to do this work. God guided their minds. He showed them what to choose to say or write. God trusted these humans with His messages. These messages are the same as treasures. They were written by humans on this earth. But the messages come from Heaven.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 26, adapted.

_Bible writers had different jobs and educations. Moses was raised from a baby to be a king._
