---
title:  GOD’S SPECIAL MESSAGES ABOUT THE FUTURE
date:   31/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible is different from any other religious book. 30% of the Bible is prophecies. Prophecies are special messages from God about the future. The Bible shows us how God acts in history to save His people. This same God knows the future. He has shown the future before it happens to His special messengers, or prophets (Amos 3:7). The Bible is God’s living Word. Yes, it shows us history. But it also shows us the future.

**What do the following verses show us about the coming Savior?**

`Genesis 49:8–12`

`Psalm 22:12–18`

`Isaiah 53:3–7`

`Daniel 9:24`

`Micah 5:2`

`Malachi 3:1`

`Zechariah 9:9`

The Old Testament has at least 65 prophecies, or special messages, about the coming Savior. These prophecies give us exact information. Genesis 49:10 (ICB), tells us, “ ‘Men from Judah’s family will be kings. Someone from Judah will always be on the throne. Judah will rule until the real king comes.’ ” Micah 5:2 tells us that the Savior will be born in Bethlehem in Judah (Micah 5:2). Isaiah 53:3–7 shows us that men will reject the Savior. They will hate Him and beat Him. They will lie about Him. But He will not say or do anything to protect Himself. Psalm 22:12–18 says that men will stab the Savior’s hands and feet with nails. These men will divide the Savior’s clothes. Then each man will take a part of the clothes for himself.

These Old Testament prophecies came true exactly as the Bible promised. This shows us that these prophecies came from God. Jesus is exactly who the Bible says that He is. So, we can trust the Bible. It is the Word of God.

_Micah 5:2 tells us that the Savior will be born in Bethlehem in Judah._
