---
title:  THE BIBLE SHOWS US HISTORY
date:   01/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible is more special than other religious books for another reason. It is a record of human history. It does not only show us some person’s thoughts. The Bible is a record of God’s acts in history. The Bible shows us God’s plan over time to save His people. What are some of the parts of this plan? (1) God promises to send His people a Savior. (2) God promises that this Savior, Jesus, will come a second time to take His people to heaven.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:3–5, 51–55; Romans 8:11; and 1 Thessalonians 4:14. What do these verses teach us about Jesus’ resurrection, or waking up from the dead? What hope does Jesus’ resurrection give us personally?`

Paul and the writers of the 1st four books of the New Testament tell us that Jesus died. These men tell us that Jesus was put in a grave. Then Jesus woke up from the dead and showed Himself to different people. Many witnesses laid Jesus in the grave. Later, they saw the grave after it was empty. Witnesses touched Jesus. Jesus ate with them. Mary Magdalene, Jesus’ mother, and other women saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead. After that, Jesus’ followers talked with Him on the road to Emmaus. Then Jesus gave His followers the command to share the Good News. Paul says, “If Christ was not raised from the dead, then what we preach to you is worth nothing” (1 Corinthians 15:14, NLV). In other Bible versions, we see that the words “worth nothing” are written as “doesn’t mean anything” (1 Corinthians 15:14, NIrV). Jesus’ followers say, “ ‘It’s true! The Lord has risen!’ ” (Luke 24:34, NIrV). The words written as “it’s true” also mean “for sure.” They come from the Greek word “ontos.” This word means something that really happened. That is why Jesus’ followers say, “ ‘The Lord really has risen from death!’ ” (Luke 24:34, ERV).

Jesus also is “proof” that all those who died will wake up from the dead (1 Corinthians 15:20, ICB). We will wake up as Jesus woke up. We will have a body. Then “in Christ all of us will be made alive again” (1 Corinthians 15:22, ERV). The words “will be made alive” show us God’s future act for His people. God will wake up from the dead everyone who belongs to Jesus “at His coming” (1 Corinthians 15:23, NKJV). “This will happen when the last trumpet blows” (1 Corinthians 15:52, ERV).

_Mary Magdalene saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead._
