---
title:  THE BIBLE CHANGES OUR LIVES
date:   02/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`In 2 Kings 22:3–20, we see that King Josiah tears his clothes. Why does he do that? What does the king find that changes his life and the lives of everyone in Judah?`

In 621 b.c., Hilkiah, the high priest, finds “ ‘the Book of the Law in the Lord’s temple’ ” (2 Kings 22:8, NIrV). We think that Hilkiah found the 1st five books of Moses. Or maybe he found only Deuteronomy. Josiah is the king at the time. Josiah is 25 years old. During the time that Josiah’s grandfather Manasseh is king, this book got lost. Manasseh is very evil. He and his son Amon, the next king, worship Baal, Asherah, and other gods (2 Kings 21:3–9). Hilkiah reads the book to Josiah. Then Josiah rips his clothes because he is very upset. Josiah understands that he and his people have turned far away from God. Josiah does not wait. He starts to change things in Judah. He breaks the altars to false gods in the land. When the king is done, there is only one place left to worship in Judah: God’s temple in Jerusalem. The Book of the Law changes Josiah. It causes him to turn away from sin. God’s Word gives Josiah the power to change his life. The change starts with Josiah first. Then everyone in Judah starts to change their lives for the better too.

The Bible tells us that it has the power to change our lives and show us how to be saved. How does the Bible make these truths known to us? For the answers, please read John 16:13; John 17:17; Hebrews 4:12; and Romans 12:2.

When the Bible changes someone’s life, we see powerful proof of the Bible’s power to change us too. The Bible shows us our sins. It also shows us our need for a Savior.

The Bible is not the same as any other book. It is the living Word of God. The Bible has (1) history, (2) prophecy, or special messages about the future, and (3) the power to change lives. Most important, the Bible shows us Jesus. Jesus promised to send His Spirit to lead us “into all truth” (John 16:13, KJV). The Bible is God’s truth. So, the Bible teaches us important rules that help us to understand its messages. We can learn these rules when we study the Bible. We also should study how Bible writers allowed the Bible to explain itself.

_Josiah breaks the altars to false gods in the land._
