---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   03/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Ellen G. White, “The Scriptures a Safeguard,” pages 593–602, in The Great Controversy; “Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,” pages 662–680, in The Desire of Ages.

Many people in the past died for their faith. One example is Dr. Rowland Taylor. Dr. Taylor was a pastor in Hadley, England. He stood against Catholic teachings and beliefs during the time that Bloody Mary was queen. The Church of England forced Dr. Taylor to leave. People made fun of Dr. Taylor because he wanted to obey the Bible. So, Dr. Taylor went to the bishop of Winchester, who was one of the top religious leaders in England. But the bishop put Dr. Taylor into prison. Then he ordered Dr. Taylor to be burned to death. Dr. Taylor died in 1555. Right before he died, he said: “ ‘Good people, I have taught you only God’s Holy Word, the Bible. I have taught you lessons from this Holy Book. Now, I come here this day to spill my blood for it.’ ” John Foxe, The New Foxe’s Book of Martyrs, edited by Harold J. Chadwick (North Brunswick, NJ: Bridge-Logos Publishers, 1997), page 193, adapted. People heard Dr. Taylor say Psalm 51 right before the fire started and he died in the fire.

The question that many of us need to ask ourselves now is: Will we stay loyal to Bible truth? We are living in the end times. Sooner or later, the test will come. The time to get ready for the test is now, of course.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. In what way do prophecies, or special messages, show us that the Bible comes from God? How can these special messages make our faith grow stronger?`

`2. Why is the proof that Jesus is the promised Savior so powerful?`

`3. Jesus and His followers showed strong faith in the Bible. How many times did Jesus talk about the Bible and say that its words will come true? (For the answer, read Matthew 26:54, 56; Mark 14:49; Luke 4:21; John 13:18; and John 17:12. So, if Jesus Himself had such strong faith in the Bible, how should we feel and think about it too?`

_People heard Dr. Taylor say Psalm 51 right before the fire started and he died in the fire._
