---
title:  Resurrections Before the Cross
date:  22/10/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Jude 9, Luke 9:28–36, 1 Kings 17:8–24, Luke 7:11–17, Mark 5:35–43, John 11:1–44.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Jesus said to her, ‘I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die forever. Do you believe this?’ ” (John 11:25, 26, LEB).

The Old Testament references to the resurrection that we have looked at so far were largely based on personal expectations (Job 19:25–27, Heb. 11:17–19, Ps. 49:15, Ps. 71:20) and on future promises (Dan. 12:1, 2, 13). However, we also have the inspired records of cases in which people actually were raised from the dead.

The first resurrection was of Moses (Jude 9, Luke 9:28–36). During Israel’s monarchy, the son of the widow of Zarephath (1 Kings 17:8–24) and the Shunammite’s son (2 Kings 4:18–37) also were resurrected. Christ, when here in the flesh, resurrected the son of the widow of Nain (Luke 7:11–17), Jairus’s daughter (Luke 8:40–56), and then Lazarus (John 11). Except for Moses, all these people were raised as mortals who eventually would die again. These cases also confirm the biblical teaching of the unconsciousness of the dead (Job 3:11–13; Ps. 115:17; Ps. 146:4; Eccles. 9:5, 10). In none of these accounts, nor in any other biblical resurrection narratives, is there any mention of a supposed afterlife experience.

This week we will reflect more closely on the resurrections that occurred before Christ’s own death and resurrection.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, October 29._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Abraham’s unquestioning obedience was one of the most striking instances of faith and reliance upon God to be found in the Sacred Record. With only the naked promise that his descendants should possess Canaan, without the least outward evidence, he followed on where God should lead, fully and sincerely complying with the conditions on his part, and confident that the Lord would faithfully perform His word. The patriarch went wherever God indicated his duty; he passed through wildernesses without terror; he went among idolatrous nations, with the one thought: “God has spoken; I am obeying His voice; He will guide, He will protect me.”—_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4_, p. 524.

All created beings live by the will and power of God. They are recipients of the life of the Son of God. However able and talented, however large their capacities, they are replenished with life from the Source of all life. He is the spring, the fountain, of life. Only He who alone hath immortality, dwelling in light and life, could say, “I have power to lay it [my life] down, and I have power to take it again” (John 10:18).—_Selected Messages, book 1_, p. 301.

To talk of religion in a casual way, to pray without soul hunger and living faith, avails nothing. A nominal faith in Christ, which accepts Him merely as the Saviour of the world, can never bring healing to the soul. The faith that is unto salvation is not a mere intellectual assent to the truth. He who waits for entire knowledge before he will exercise faith, cannot receive blessing from God. It is not enough to believe about Christ; we must believe in Him. The only faith that will benefit us is that which embraces Him as a personal Saviour; which appropriates His merits to ourselves. Many hold faith as an opinion. Saving faith is a transaction by which those who receive Christ join themselves in covenant relation with God. Genuine faith is life. A living faith means an increase of vigor, a confiding trust, by which the soul becomes a conquering power. . . .<br/>
Our confession of His faithfulness is Heaven’s chosen agency for revealing Christ to the world. We are to acknowledge His grace as made known through the holy men of old; but that which will be most effectual is the testimony of our own experience. We are witnesses for God as we reveal in ourselves the working of a power that is divine. Every individual has a life distinct from all others, and an experience differing essentially from theirs. God desires that our praise shall ascend to Him, marked by our own individuality. These precious acknowledgments to the praise of the glory of His grace, when supported by a Christ-like life, have an irresistible power that works for the salvation of souls.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 347.