---
title:  The Son of the Widow of Nain
date:  25/10/2022
---

The Bible says that Jesus “ ‘went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him’ ” (Acts 10:38, NASB). Indeed, all the Gospels are full of accounts of Jesus ministering to many needy and hurting souls, which is why later many Jews came to believe that Jesus was the promised Messiah.

“There were whole villages where there was not a moan of sickness in any house, for He had passed through them and healed all their sick. His work gave evidence of His divine anointing. Love, mercy, and compassion were revealed in every act of His life; His heart went out in tender sympathy to the children of men. He took man’s nature, that He might reach man’s wants. The poorest and humblest were not afraid to approach Him. Even little children were attracted to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pp. 11, 12.

`Read Luke 7:11–17. What important difference is there between what happened in this resurrection and in the ones we looked at yesterday?`

During His ministry in Galilee, Jesus healed the sick and expelled demons. One time, He and His followers were approaching the gates of Nain when a funeral procession was going through those gates. In the open coffin was the only son of a widow, who was weeping inconsolably. Full of compassion for the grieving mother, Jesus said to her, “ ‘Do not weep.’ ” Then Jesus turned to the dead son in the coffin and ordered him, “ ‘Young man, I say to you, arise.’ ” The son came to life, and Jesus “presented him to his mother” (Luke 7:13–15, NKJV). The presence of Jesus completely changed the whole scenario, and many people who had witnessed the miracle knew not only that something astonishing had happened but also that someone special (they called Him “a great prophet”) was among them.

Both the Phoenician widow (1 Kings 17:8–24) and the Shunammite woman (2 Kings 4:18–37) had asked for help—from Elijah and Elisha, respectively. But the widow of Nain was helped without even asking for it. This means that God cares for us even when we are unable or feel unworthy to ask Him for help. Jesus saw the problem and dealt with it—so typical of Jesus through all His ministry.

`True religion involves caring for orphans and widows around us (James 1:27). Though, obviously, we won’t be able to do the kind of miracles Jesus did, what can we do to minister to those who are hurting around us?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Your compassionate Redeemer is watching you with love and sympathy, ready to hear your prayers and to render you the assistance which you need. He knows the burdens of every mother’s heart and is her best friend in every emergency. His everlasting arms support the God-fearing, faithful mother. When upon earth, He had a mother that struggled with poverty, having many anxious cares and perplexities, and He sympathizes with every Christian mother in her cares and anxieties. That Saviour who took a long journey for the purpose of relieving the anxious heart of a woman whose daughter was possessed by an evil spirit will hear the mother’s prayers and will bless her children.<br/>
He who gave back to the widow her only son as he was carried to the burial is touched today by the woe of the bereaved mother. . . . He is woman’s best friend today and is ready to aid her in all the relations of life.—The Adventist Home, p. 204.

He who stood beside the sorrowing mother at the gate of Nain, watches with every mourning one beside the bier. He is touched with sympathy for our grief. His heart, that loved and pitied, is a heart of unchangeable tenderness. His word, that called the dead to life, is no less efficacious now than when spoken to the young man of Nain. He says, “All power is given unto Me in heaven and in earth.” Matthew 28:18. That power is not diminished by the lapse of years, nor exhausted by the ceaseless activity of His overflowing grace. To all who believe on Him He is still a living Saviour.—The Desire of Ages, p. 319.

When our noble Henry died, at the age of sixteen,—when our sweet singer was borne to the grave, and we no more heard his early song,—ours was a lonely home. Both parents and the two remaining sons felt the blow most keenly. But God comforted us in our bereavements, and with faith and courage we pressed forward in the work He had given us, in bright hope of meeting our children who had been torn from us by death, in that world where sickness and death will never come.—Life Sketches, p. 165.

We should anticipate the sorrows, the difficulties, the troubles of others. We should enter into the joys and cares of both high and low, rich and poor. “Freely ye have received,” Christ says, “freely give.” Matthew 10:8. All around us are poor, tried souls that need sympathizing words and helpful deeds. There are widows who need sympathy and assistance. There are orphans whom Christ has bidden His followers receive as a trust from God. Too often these are passed by with neglect. They may be ragged, uncouth, and seemingly in every way unattractive; yet they are God’s property. They have been bought with a price, and they are as precious in His sight as we are. They are members of God’s great household, and Christians as His stewards are responsible for them.—Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 386.