---
title:  Jairus’s Daughter
date:  26/10/2022
---

The resurrections prior to Jesus’ own death and resurrection were not limited to any specific ethnic group or social class. Moses was perhaps the greatest human leader of God’s people ever (Deut. 34:10–12). By contrast, the poor Phoenician widow was not even an Israelite (1 Kings 17:9). The Shunammite woman was prominent in her community (2 Kings 4:8). The widow of Nain had only one son, upon whom she was probably dependent (Luke 7:12). In contrast, Jairus was a ruler of the synagogue, probably in Capernaum (Mark 5:22). Regardless of their different cultural backgrounds or social status, all of them were blessed by God’s life-giving power.

`Read Mark 5:21–24, 35–43. What can we learn about death from Christ’s words “ ‘The child is not dead, but sleeping’ ”? (Mark 5:39, NKJV).`

Jairus’s 12-year-old daughter was lying deathly sick at home. So, he went to Jesus and begged Him to come to his home and lay His healing hands on her. But before they could get there, someone already brought the sad news “ ‘Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?’ ” (Mark 5:35, NKJV).

Then Jesus said to the grieving father, “ ‘Do not fear, only believe’ ” (Mark 5:36, NRSV). Indeed, all the father could do was trust totally in God’s intervention.

Arriving at the house, Jesus said to those who gathered there, “ ‘Why do you make a commotion and weep? The child is not dead but sleeping’ ” (Mark 5:39, NRSV). They ridiculed Him because (1) they knew that she was dead, and (2) they did not grasp the meaning of His words. “The comforting metaphor by which ‘sleep’ stands for ‘death’ seems to have been Christ’s favorite way of referring to this experience (_[Matt. 9:24; Luke 8:52;]_ see on John 11:11–15). Death is a sleep, but it is a deep sleep from which only the great Life-giver can awaken one, for He alone has the keys to the tomb (see Rev. 1:18; cf. John 3:16; Rom. 6:23).”—_The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 5_, p. 609.

After the resurrection of this girl, those who saw it were “overcome with amazement” (Mark 5:42, NRSV). No wonder. For now, death is final, absolute, and seemingly irreversible. To have seen something like this with their own eyes surely must have been an amazing, life-changing experience.

`Jesus’ words, “ ‘Do not fear, only believe’ ” (Mark 5:36, NRSV), are still meaningful for us today. How can we learn to do that, even amid fearful situations, which are the most important times to keep believing?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

While they were still on the way, a messenger pressed through the crowd, bearing to Jairus the news that his daughter was dead, and it was useless to trouble the Master further. The word caught the ear of Jesus. “Fear not,” He said; “believe only, and she shall be made whole.”<br/>
Jairus pressed closer to the Saviour, and together they hurried to the ruler’s home. Already the hired mourners and flute players were there, filling the air with their clamor. The presence of the crowd, and the tumult jarred upon the spirit of Jesus. He tried to silence them, saying, “Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.” They were indignant at the words of the Stranger. They had seen the child in the embrace of death, and they laughed Him to scorn. . . .<br/>
Jesus approached the bedside, and, taking the child’s hand in His own, He pronounced softly, in the familiar language of her home, the words, “Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.”<br/>
Instantly a tremor passed through the unconscious form. The pulses of life beat again. The lips unclosed with a smile. The eyes opened widely as if from sleep, and the maiden gazed with wonder on the group beside her. She arose, and her parents clasped her in their arms, and wept for joy.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 342, 343.

It is the privilege of Christians to know indeed that Christ is in them of a truth. “This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.” All things are possible to him that believeth; and whatsoever things we desire when we pray, if we believe that we receive them we shall have them. This faith will penetrate the darkest cloud and bring rays of light and hope to the drooping, desponding soul. It is the absence of this faith and trust which brings perplexity, distressing fears, and surmisings of evil. God will do great things for His people when they put their entire trust in Him. “Godliness with contentment is great gain.” Pure and undefiled religion will be exemplified in the life. Christ will prove a never-failing source of strength, a present help in every time of trouble.—_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2_, p. 139.

[God’s] voice is heard, “I have loved thee with an everlasting love” (Jeremiah 31:3). “With everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee” (Isaiah 54:8). How amazing is this love, that God condescends to remove all cause for doubt and questioning from human fears and weakness and takes hold of the trembling hand reached up to Him in faith; and He helps us to trust Him by multiplied assurances and securities. . . . What more could our Lord do to strengthen our faith in His promises?—_That I May Know Him_, p. 262.