---
title:  Lazarus
date:  27/10/2022
---

`Read John 11:1–44. In what sense was Jesus “glorified” by the sickness and death of Lazarus (John 11:4)?`

Here, too, Jesus uses the metaphor for sleep in talking about death. “ ‘Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I am going there to wake him up’ ” (John 11:11, NIV). When some thought He was talking about literal sleep (John 11:11–13), Jesus clearly stated what He meant: “ ‘Lazarus is dead’ ” (John 11:12–14, NIV). Actually, when Jesus arrived in Bethany, Lazarus had been dead four days; his corpse already was rotting (John 11:17, 39). By the time a body starts decomposing badly enough to smell, there’s no question: _the person is dead_.

In this context, when Jesus told Martha, “ ‘Your brother will rise from the dead’ ” (John 11:23, NASB), she reaffirmed her belief in the final resurrection. But Jesus declared, “ ‘I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die forever. Do you believe this?’ ” (John 11:23–26, LEB). And Jesus added, “ ‘If you believe, you will see the glory of God’ ” (John 11:40, NASB). Martha believed, and she saw the glory of God in the resurrection of her brother.

The Bible says that by God’s word life was created (Gen, 1:20–30, Ps. 33:6), and by His word life can be re-created, as in the case of Lazarus. After a short prayer, Jesus ordered, “ ‘Lazarus, come forth!’ ” (John 11:43, NKJV). Right then and there these people saw the life-giving power of God, the same power that spoke our world into existence, and the same power that at the end of the age will call the dead back to life in the resurrection.

By raising Lazarus, Jesus proved that He had the power to defeat death, which, for beings like us, who inevitably die—what greater manifestation of God’s glory could there be?

`Read John 11:25, 26. In one line Jesus talks about believers dying, and in the next He talks about believers never dying. What is Jesus teaching us here, and why is the understanding that death is an unconscious sleep so crucial in understanding Christ’s words? And why do His words offer us, as beings destined to the grave, so much hope?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ had not only the loved ones at Bethany to think of; He had the training of His disciples to consider. They were to be His representatives to the world, that the Father’s blessing might include all. For their sake He permitted Lazarus to die. Had He restored him from illness to health, the miracle that is the most positive evidence of His divine character would not have been performed.<br/>
Had Christ been in the sick-room, Lazarus would not have died; for Satan would have had no power over him. In the presence of the Lifegiver, death could not have aimed his dart at Lazarus. . . . He permitted Lazarus to pass under the dominion of death, and the suffering sisters saw their brother laid in the grave. Christ knew that as they looked on the face of their dead brother, their faith in their Redeemer would be severely tried. Thus He was pruning the branches, that they might bring forth more fruit. He knew that because of the struggle through which they were now passing, their faith would shine forth with far greater power.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 92.

“Take ye away the stone,” Christ said. Thinking that He only wished to look upon the dead, Martha objected, saying that the body had been buried four days, and corruption had already begun its work. This statement, made before the raising of Lazarus, left no room for Christ’s enemies to say that a deception had been practiced. In the past the Pharisees had circulated false statements regarding the most wonderful manifestations of the power of God. When Christ raised to life the daughter of Jairus, He had said, “The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.” Mark 5:39. As she had been sick only a short time, and was raised immediately after death, the Pharisees declared that the child had not been dead; that Christ Himself had said she was only asleep. They had tried to make it appear that Christ could not cure disease, that there was foul play about His miracles. But in this case, none could deny that Lazarus was dead.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 534.

Because Christ was one with the Father, equal with Him, He could make an atonement for transgression, and save man—not in his sins, but from his sins. . . .<br/>
[In] the words spoken to God’s faithful ones, “Come, ye blessed of my Father,” Christ says, “inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.” Then from the host of the redeemed there rises the triumphant chorus, “O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?” O that our minds could comprehend the greatness of the theme and the wonderful importance of the occasion.<br/>
“Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.” “If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death.” God’s chosen ones may fall at their post of duty, but they have only fallen asleep, to rest till Jesus awakes them to share with Him an eternal weight of glory.—_The Upward Look_, p. 272.