---
title:  Keeping it 100
date:  01/07/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 1**

**Keeping it 100**

Leviticus 1 is about being 100% devoted to God because He is 100% devoted to you. Studying the burnt offering offers an impressive look at how God values wholehearted devotion from His people. This freewill offering required the sinner to bring a male animal from their livestock to the temple and give it entirely to the Lord (Lev. 1:3, 4). The accepted animals were the bull, sheep, goat, turtledove, and young pigeon (Lev. 1:5, 10, 14).

This was quite a demonstration of devotion since the offeror’s family was dependent on these animals for food, clothing, tools, and weapons. Interestingly, the animal was to be slain on the “north side of the altar,” which represents the side of the altar closest to God’s throne (Lev. 1:11; Isa. 14:13). This meant the offeror put their wholehearted and sincere devotion on display before the King of kings Himself!

Although many believe in God, some want Him to only have limited control of their lives; they prefer that He have a more compartmentalized involvement. To describe it using a metaphor, they want Him to have access to a file on their desktop but not complete access to what they eat, what they watch, what they listen to, whom they date, whom they marry, how they spend their money, and on and on. Their devotion to God is limited to attending church and does not impact their day-to-day lifestyle. But God does not value “lukewarm” Christianity. In fact, it grosses him out! (Rev. 3:16). His character isn’t lukewarm, and He will not accept it from His people. He wants us either cold or hot; 100% devoted or not at all. Perhaps nowhere in the entire Old Testament is this more emphatically communicated than in Leviticus 1 and the burnt offering. All is to be placed on the altar as an offering to God (Lev. 1:13).

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 1 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 1:10–13. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `