---
title:  An All-out Heart
date:  02/07/2023
---

#### inGest

On Mount Sinai, God gave Moses five types of sacrificial offerings: the burnt, grain, sin, guilt, and peace offerings. We will eventually learn about all of these, but the burnt offering sacrifice was the oldest and most prominent of the offerings. Some wonder why there needed to be so many different types of sacrifices, and the answer is found in wondering why there are four Gospels in the New Testament. Each Gospel, like each sacrifice, reveals a different aspect of Jesus and what He values, and each compels us to give our lives fully to Him in a different way.

Great Bible heroes like Adam, Abel, Noah, Job, and Abraham offered burnt offerings to the Lord. By doing this, they pointed in faith to the coming substitutional death of Jesus and His desire for wholehearted commitment from His people. The burnt offering represented a wholehearted commitment to God motivated by His wholehearted commitment to us. The Hebrew word for the burnt offering was olah, which means “that which goes up or ascends.” Unlike the other sacrifices, the burnt offerings were completely consumed on the altar of burnt sacrifice. The only thing that remained was the animal’s skin, but this was given to the officiating priest, not to the offeror, again demonstrating one’s complete and wholehearted commitment to God (Lev. 7:8).

By offering this particular sacrifice, offerors were in essence laying themselves upon the altar and dedicating themselves to God completely, without holding anything back. No doubt Paul was referring to the burnt sacrifice when he said, “I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service” (Rom. 12:1). God highly esteemed the burnt offering, a fact that can be seen in how it is described as being “a sweet aroma to the Lord” three times in Leviticus 1 (vv. 9, 13, 17). There are at least three reasons for this joyful acceptance of the offering.

First and most important, God was pleased with this offering because it was an act of faith in His Son, who would come and die for the sins of the offeror. The book of Hebrews tells us that God got no sadistic pleasure from the animal sacrifices in Leviticus (Heb. 10:5–8). The only reason He was pleased with the burnt sacrifice is that it showed that His people believed in His Son (Heb. 11:6).

Second, the burnt offering was special because it was a volunteer offering. It was not mandatory, but came entirely from the heart of the offeror (Lev. 1:2). In response to Jesus, who willingly laid down His life, God is calling us to willingly lay down our lives as well. Interestingly, the first three offerings in Leviticus are freewill offerings. God delights in those who give from the heart (2 Cor. 9:7).

Third, this sacrifice was highly valued because it showed the kind of response He wants from His people when they understand all He has done for them. God wants His people to be 100 percent devoted to Him in response to His 100 percent devotion to them! God wants us to love Him because “He first loved us” (1 John 4:19).

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

`In what ways did the burnt offering point to God’s amazing devotion to humanity?`

`What are areas in your life that you need to give wholeheartedly to God and allow Him to remove or enhance for His glory?`