---
title:  Wholly Burnt
date:  03/07/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Tabloids are notorious for reporting false stories. They have been known to manipulate pictures, even going so far as to insert one person’s face onto another person’s body. They create controversy, stimulate gossip, and ultimately get the gullible to purchase their magazine. The devil does the same thing when it comes to God. Satan accuses God of the evil he is doing, then photoshops God into the situation, trying to make Him take the blame. Thankfully, when we know and trust God’s Word, we can discover God’s incredible mercy, compassion, goodness, and innocence.

The Canaanites practiced animal sacrifice, believing the act of slaughtering an animal brought their gods great pleasure and provided a meal for them. It was also hoped that this would win them favor or grace with the gods. There was no sense of atonement for sins in the Canaanites’ understanding of animal sacrifice. Sadly, this was a satanic perversion of the original sacrificial system that portrayed God as volatile, cruel, greedy, lustful, and even bloodthirsty, for that was not the intent of the sacrificial services that God started in the Garden of Eden and made law in Leviticus. God had warned Adam and Even that if they ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they would die (Gen. 2:17). But when they fell, God had a plan in place to save them from instant death and to infuse them with hope for life beyond the grave.

From the very beginning God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit foresaw the horror of sin and put together a plan to save humanity. Jesus Himself, because of our sins, would make a wholehearted commitment to humanity by laying down His life and dying on a Roman cross. Jesus was to be the whole burnt offering, “the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” (Rev. 13:8). He was the one to whom all the sacrifices pointed. Leviticus is a prophetic book that we now know is precise in its identification of Jesus as the Messiah (1 John 2:2).

Immediately after Adam and Eve sinned, God Himself conducted the first sacrificial service (Gen. 3:21). He offered a burnt sacrifice, which taught our first parents three important truths: First, that sin is evil and ultimately leads to pain, shame, and death. Second, that the Son of God would one day come, take upon Himself the guilt of our sins, and die a horrific death in our place. So rather than the burnt offering pointing to a cruel God, it symbolized the very opposite: God Himself in the person of His precious Son dying for humanity. Third, the burnt offering was a call to every believer to dedicate themselves fully to the One who had given them all He had to give (Rom. 12:1, 2).

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What is so significant about the fact that God Himself offered the very first burnt offering? What does this act reveal?`