---
title:  Our Burnt Sacrifice
date:  05/07/2023
---

#### inVite

When John the Baptist shouted, “Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!” (John 1:29), he was clearly identifying Jesus as the burnt sacrifice. Notice that John did not say behold the bull of God, the goat of God, or God’s turtledove. This points to the burnt offerings that the priest offered every morning and evening, to begin and end the daily sacrifices (Exod. 29:39). For these foundational, bookend burnt offerings, a lamb was slain.

For anyone who understood the temple services, this was an exceptional title to bestow upon Jesus. In calling Jesus the Lamb, John was not only identifying Him as the fulfillment of 4,000 years of burnt sacrifices—he was also highlighting the fact that Jesus was the foundation of the entire temple service. He was the Alpha and Omega of the sacrifices! Every burnt sacrifice pointed to Jesus, who “takes away the sins of the world” (John 1:29).

Everywhere in Leviticus 1 we see Jesus represented by the burnt sacrifice. He laid down His life willingly, He was sinless and without spiritual or physical blemish (Lev. 1:3), He was washed and clean both inside and out (v. 9), and He was completely dedicated to God, wholehearted in His commitment to His heavenly Father. He took our sins upon Himself, identified with us, and died the death we should have died (vv. 4, 5). He atoned for our sin, paying with His blood to give us forgiveness and right standing with God (v. 4).

While the burnt offering was indeed a demonstration of one’s wholehearted commitment to God, it was first and foremost a demonstration of God’s commitment to us through His Son. He gave everything so we could be made right with Him (at-one-ment). It is this commitment to us that motivates our commitment to Him! We first recognize that Jesus is our burnt sacrifice, and we respond by laying ourselves upon the altar of complete and wholehearted commitment to the Lover of our souls.

Here are all the aspects of this one sacrifice that reflect Jesus. Like Christ:

* The burnt offering was physically unblemished (1 Pet. 1:18, 19)
* The whole sacrifice was given to God (John 19:30; Heb. 7:27)
* The burnt offering provided atonement for and cleansing from sin (Rom. 3:24, 25; 1 John 1:7)
* The sacrificial animal was put to death (Matt. 26:42)
* The offering was a “pleasing aroma to God” (Eph. 5:2, NLT)
* The blood of the burnt offering was poured out (Heb. 9:11, 12)

**Meditate on Leviticus 1 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you through the texts of the week?`

`In what ways did Jesus show total commitment to us?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`