---
title:  Entire Consecration
date:  06/07/2023
---

#### inSight

“Christ shows that there can be no such thing as neutrality in His service. The soul must not be satisfied with anything short of entire consecration—consecration of thought, voice, spirit, and every organ of mind and body” (Ellen G. White, manuscript 78, 1899, in EGW SDA Bible Commentary [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1956], vol. 5, p. 1093).

“For the building of the sanctuary great and expensive preparations were necessary; a large amount of precious and costly materials was required; yet the Lord accepted onlyfreewill offerings. . . . Devotion to God and a spirit of sacrifice were the first requisites in preparing a dwelling place for the Most High. All the people responded with one accord” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1890, 1908], pp. 343, 344).

“While the building of the sanctuary was in progress the people, old and young—men and women, and children—continued to bring their offerings, until those in charge of the work found that they had enough, and even more than could be used” (Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 344).

“The sacrificial system, committed to Adam, was also perverted by his descendants. Superstition, idolatry, cruelty, and licentiousness corrupted the simple and significant service that God had appointed. Through long intercourse with idolaters the people of Israel had mingled many heathen customs with their worship; therefore the Lord gave them at Sinai definite instruction concerning the sacrificial service” (Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 364).

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study of Leviticus 1, what can you learn about yourself?`

`What can be applied to everyone within your social circles?`