---
title:  Who Is The Man of Romans 7?
date:   18/11/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 7.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “But now we have died to what used to control us. We have been set free from the law. Now we serve in the new way of the Holy Spirit. We no longer serve in the old way of the written law” (Romans 7:6, NIrV).

Few chapters in the Bible cause more disagreement than Romans 7. Here is what *The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation]* says about the reason for the disagreement: “The meaning of [Romans 7:14–25] is one of the most talked about problems in the whole letter of Romans. The first question is about the battle Paul describes going on between good and evil inside him: Is Paul describing him-self here? If yes, is Paul discussing his experience before or after he gave his life to Jesus? It seems Paul speaks about his own personal fight against sin. . . . Paul also describes a war experienced by every person who becomes aware of how much we owe God’s holy law.”—Volume 6, page 553, adapted.

Did Paul have the experience in Romans 7 *before* or after he became a Christian? What you choose to believe about Paul’s experience is important. But more important than that is believing that Jesus’ holy life covers us. We can stand in Jesus’ holy life without sin before God because of this covering. God promises to make us holy and give us victory over sin. God promises to make us “to be like [the same as] His Son” (Romans 8:29, NLV). These beliefs are important truths for us to know as we take the Good News about Jesus to everyone on the earth (Revelation 14:6).
