---
title:  Dead to the Power of the Law
date:   19/11/2017
---

`Read Romans 7:1–6. What word picture does Paul use in these verses to show to his readers their connection to the law? What important idea does Paul explain with that word picture?`

Paul's word picture in Romans 7:1-6 is somewhat difficult to understand. But a careful look at the verses will help explain Paul’s thinking.

First, we must remember that Paul’s topic in Romans deals with the worship plan God gave Moses at Sinai. Paul often uses the word “law” to mean this worship plan. The Jews had a difficult time understanding that this plan ended when Jesus came as the Messiah. The Messiah was the One God chose to take away our sin. Paul’s topic also deals with Jews who believed Jesus was the Messiah. But these Jewish believers were not ready to give up their worship plan because this plan had been such an important part of their lives. So, Paul came up with a word picture about marriage to help these Jewish Christians understand why they should let go of the old plan.

Here is the meaning of Paul’s word picture about the law of marriage: a woman is married to a man. The law joins the wife to her husband for as long as he lives. The wife can-not join herself to another man during that time. But what would happen if her husband died? Then the woman would be free from the law of being married to him (Romans 7:3).

`Read Romans 7:4,5. How does Paul use the word picture of the law about marriage to help Jewish believers understand they could let go of the old worship plan?`

The death of a woman’s husband frees her from the law of being married to him. In the same way, Jesus’ death puts to death our old life of sin. And so, Jesus’ death freed the Jews from the old worship plan. The Jews were free to “marry again.” They were invited to “marry” the risen Jesus. Then the Jews would live holy lives that made God happy. This word picture about marriage was one more example Paul used to convince the Jews they were now free to let go of the old worship plan. But nowhere does Paul say God put an end to the Ten Commandments. People who say that we no longer need to obey the law make Romans 7:4, 5 say something it was never meant to say.
