---
title:  Sin and the Law
date:   20/11/2017
---

The old worship plan ended when Jesus died. But the end of the old plan did not bring an end to the Ten Commandments or to our need to obey them.

`Read Romans 7:8–11. What does Paul say in these verses about the connection between the law and sin?`

God made Himself known to the Jews. He made clear to them what was right and wrong. God also explained the punishments for breaking His laws. In fact, the meaning of sin is breaking God’s law.

Paul explains that he would not know what sin is if the law had not shown him. But what if God’s law were broken by someone who did not know the law? Then this person would not understand that he or she sinned. But what would happen if God made His law known to that person? Then that person would understand that he or she is a sinner who would be punished with death. And so, in this way, we can say the person “dies.”

What Paul is doing here is helping the Jews to see that Jesus paid in full everything that we owed to the law. Paul shows us the law was necessary. But the law was limited in what it could do. The law was meant to show us that we needed saving. But we never were meant to be saved by obeying the law.

“Paul shares an important truth. It is the truth about the work that takes place in the person that God makes right with Himself. Paul says, ‘I was once [at one time] alive. That was when I did not know what the Law said I had to do’ [Romans 7:9, NLV]. Here, Paul means he felt no guilt. But then he says, ‘I found that I had broken the Law. I knew I was a sinner’ [Romans 7:9, NLV]. God’s law showed Paul his guilt. And so, he says, ‘Death was mine because of the Law’ (NLV). Paul saw himself as a sinner. God found Paul guilty of breaking God’s law. Notice, it was Paul, and not the law, that died.”—Ellen G. White Comments [Thoughts], *The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation]*, volume 6, page 1076, adapted.

`How have you “died” because of the law? How does that word picture help you better understand everything Jesus did for you when He gave you a new life?`
