---
title:  The Law is Holy
date:   21/11/2017
---

`How do the ideas that Paul discussed so far in chapter 7 help us to understand Romans 7:12?`

The Jews showed a lot of respect for the law. So, Paul honored and praised the law. The law is good for showing us our sin and our need to be saved. But the law cannot do the things it was never meant to do. The law cannot save us from sin. Only Jesus can and His righteousness. His righteousness is His power to forgive us and make us right with Him. Jesus’ power gives us victory over sin. God gives us this righteousness because we believe in Jesus.

`Whom does Paul blame, in Romans 7:13, for his “death”? (Of course, Paul really does not mean he is in the grave. Instead, Paul is using “death” as a word picture to show what happened to his spirit.) Who does Paul say is not to blame for his “death”? Why is this difference so important to understand?`

In Romans 7:13, Paul blames sin, and not the law, for his being a sinner and for causing him to “have all kinds of desires” (Romans 7:8, CEV) for things he should not want. The law is good. The law is God’s example of how to live. But as a sinner, Paul is guilty of breaking the law.

`As shown in Romans 7:14, 15, why did sin succeed at showing Paul that he was an awful sinner?`

Paul says that he is “a person who does what is wrong and bad” (Romans 7:14, NLV). So, Paul needed Jesus. Only Jesus could take away the punishment that came from sinning (Romans 8:1). Only Jesus could free Paul from his slavery to sin.  

Paul is “a slave of sin” (Romans 7:14, NIrV). Paul has no freedom. He cannot do what the law asks him to do.

Paul uses this word picture of a slave to show the Jews that they needed Jesus. Paul already showed the Jews that victory over sin is possible only by God’s grace (Romans 6:14). Grace is God’s mercy and power over sin.

`What has been your own experience with how sin makes us slaves? Why must you give yourself to Jesus? Why must self "die" daily?`
