---
title:  The Man of Romans 7
date:   22/11/2017
---

`In Romans 7:16, 17, Paul describes a fight that is going on inside him. Why is this war taking place?`

The Holy Spirit uses the law in the same way we use a mirror. The Spirit uses the law to show us our sin. The Spirit shows us that we are not obeying the law. When we try to do the things the law tells us to do, we show that we agree that the law is good.

`What ideas does Paul talk about in Romans 7:18–20 that he talked about earlier?`

The Holy Spirit helps us to know we need Jesus. The Spirit often leads us into experiences that are the same as the one Israel had in the wilderness. Ellen G. White describes Israel’s experience in these words: “The people did not fully know how evil their hearts were. They did not know that they could not obey God’s law without help from Jesus. The people quickly agreed to the contract with God. They felt they could become right with God in their own power. . . . Only a few weeks passed before the people broke their contract with God. They bowed down to worship a false god. The people could not hope that God would accept them now. They had broken the contract with God. Now, they saw how full of sin they were. They saw their need of pardon. They felt their need of the Savior shown in the agreement God made with Abraham.”—*Patriarchs [Fathers] and Prophets [Special messengers]*, pages 371, 372, adapted.

Sadly, many Christians fail to give their lives again to Jesus every day. So, these Christians serve sin, even if they do not want to accept this fact as true. They make the mistake of thinking that falling into sin from time to time is part of the normal experience of their being made holy. They think their sins only mean they have a long way to go. So, they do not take these sins to Jesus and ask Him for victory. Instead, these Christians misunderstand Romans 7. They think Paul says it is impossible to do right. But the truth is Romans 7 says it is impossible to do right when a person is a slave to sin. But victory is possible in Jesus.

`Are you winning the battle over self and sin that Jesus promises? If you are not, why? What wrong choices are you making that stop you from having victory?`
