---
title:  Saved From Death
date:   23/11/2017
---

`Romans 7:21–23 talks about an awful war. How have you experienced this same war going on in your own life?`

In Romans 7:21–23, Paul says that the law that controls his body is the law of sin. “In my mind I am a slave to God’s law. But sin controls my desires. So I am a slave to the law of sin” (Romans 7:25, NIrV). But to serve sin and obey its law means death (Romans 7:10, 11, 13). So, Paul’s body can be described by the word picture “this body of death” (Romans 7:24, NKJV) because Paul’s body obeyed sin.

Paul also talks about “the law of [the] mind” (Romans 7:23, NIrV). The law of the mind is the choice to obey God’s law. The Holy Spirit convinced Paul to agree to obey the law. So, Paul made the choice to obey. But when Paul tried to obey, he could not. Why? Because Paul’s body wanted to sin. Who has not felt this same fight going on within his or her own spirit? In our minds, we know we want to do right. But our bodies have strong desires to do wrong.

`Read Romans 7:24, 25. As shown in these verses, how can we be saved from the dangerous war against sin that is going on inside us?`

Some people wonder why Paul would go back to dis-cussing his spirit’s fght against sin. After all, God already freed Paul from sin. Paul’s words, “I thank God I can be free through [in] Jesus Christ our Lord!” (Romans 7:25, NLV) show us the freedom from sin Paul found. But other people think these words of thanksgiving in verse 25 mean that Paul is only saying the same thing he said in earlier verses of this chapter. These people think Paul is only telling us again about the war going on inside him against sin.

But other people disagree. They say that Paul used the wording “I myself” (NKJV) to mean that he was leaving Jesus out of his fight here against sin. Whatever we think that the verses in Romans 7:24, 25 mean, one thing should be clear to us: we are helpless against sin without Jesus. With Jesus, we have new life. We know that sin always will fight against us. But God gives us victory over sin if we choose to take hold of it. You alone must make that choice. There is no other way to get the victories that God promises us in Jesus.
