---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/11/2017
---

 “There is no safety or peace for us in breaking the law. There is no reason to sin. Humans who choose to sin cannot hope to stand innocent before God or be at peace with Him.” —Ellen G. White, *Selected Messages*, book 1, page 213, adapted.    

 “Paul wants his brothers and sisters in Jesus to know that the glory and power of Jesus gave meaning to the whole Jewish plan of worship. God gave Moses this plan to give to Israel. Every gift that the Jews gave to God under the old worship plan pointed to Jesus. These gifts showed the Jews that Jesus would save them.

 “Jesus died on the cross as payment for sin. Jesus’ death put an end to the need for the laws dealing with the offer-ing of animals to God in place of the sinner. At the same time, the old plan of worship was full of glory. The whole law showed that God gave the law to humans. The law showed that God is holy, fair, and good. It is true that an end was made to that law. But that law was full of glory, as we have said. Then Jesus came. All of the symbols of the old law pointed to Jesus. Jesus and the gift of His Spirit were full of more glory than the old law ever could be. Jesus gives His Spirit to everyone who believes. The Spirit gives life to God’s believers and makes them holy.”—Ellen G. White Comments [Thoughts], The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 1095, adapted.

 **Discussion Question**

 In Romans 7:25, Paul gives us his clearest teaching about the law of sin. From this verse, we learn that the believing person serves the Law of God at the same time that he serves the Law of sin. *The sinner is made right with God and, at the same time, he stays a sinner*. Paul does not say, ‘My mind serves the Law of God.’ And Paul does not say, ‘My flesh serves the Law of sin.’ Instead, Paul says, ‘I myself.’ By this wording, Paul shows that the whole person is a slave in two ways. . . . What Paul means to say is: Believers are sinners at the same time they are right with God. They are right with God because they believe in Jesus. Jesus’ holy life covers them. But they are sinners, because they cannot pay the penalty for having broken the law. They continue to want to do evil. They are the same as sick people who need a doc-tor.”—Martin Luther, *Commentary on Romans*, pages 114, 115, adapted. 

 `Can we agree with what Luther wrote here? Yes or no? Give reasons for your answers.`
