---
title:  God or Mammon?
date:   13/01/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “Therefore God also has highly exalted Him and given Him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father” (Phil. 2:9–11, NKJV).

**Introduction**: John 5:19, 30

**Who’s Your Daddy?**

I was reading a book recently, and the author stated that he was teaching a weekend seminar and wrote the following words on a flip chart: “I do nothing on my own. I can only do what I see my dad doing.”* He asked the participants in the seminar to analyze the person who would make such a statement, and these are some of the replies that he received:

“He sounds weak. Almost helpless.”

“Has this person been to counseling?”

“Not healthy.”

“He’s codependent.”

I bet many of our answers would be the same. This “weak,” “codependent” individual is Jesus speaking in John 5:19, 30. Jesus recognized that He was not here to operate of His own accord. He was a steward for His Father—He was here to operate God’s business plan.

The world in which we live is rigged with convenient ways of fooling us into thinking that we rule our own lives. We are taught that if we get a good education, we can get a good job and we will be able to take care of ourselves. We enter schools and the workforce with the idea of pursuing our desires and dreams, and most of us give very little thought to what God’s plan is for our lives. Ultimately, if things are going well—good grades, good salary—it’s easy for us to think that we have everything under control. Self-sufficiency was never part of God’s plan. Jesus recognized His desperate need for His Father and was not ashamed to say, “I do not seek My own will, but the will of the Father who sent Me” (verse 30, NKJV).

Therefore, the question is, Who’s your daddy? Are you prepared to come to the place where you realize that you don’t belong to yourself? That’s right, you were bought at a significant price through the blood of Jesus and for an exact purpose. Have you considered asking God to show you what He wants you to do? Where He wants you to go? True, the answers may surprise you, but the only way to be a good steward of the life He has given you is to recognize that He’s your daddy.

<sup>* Paul E. Miller, Love Walked Among Us: Learning to Love Like Jesus (Carol Stream, Ill.: Tyndale House Publishers, 2014), chap. 11.</sup>

_Patrice Yorke, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_