---
title:  Enamored by God
date:   14/01/2018
---

**Logos**: Matt. 28:19, 20

**Stewardship** (Exod. 34:6, 7; John 3:16)

Stewardship is the management of resources. It is taking on responsibility and applying the skill, talent, and expertise to ensure that a great job is accomplished. We daily go about being stewards in our roles as professionals, men, women, friends, and families. In fact, we spend a considerable amount of time from toddlerhood until we are in our early or even late twenties mastering scholastic and vocational talents to truly excel at what we enjoy doing. Why? Because we love what we pursue. Love is the benchmark of our actions; it is also the foundation of stewardship. Love is the benchmark of our actions; it is also the foundation of stewardship.

**Love—the Benchmark of Stewardship** (Luke 16:13; John 5:19, 30)

True stewardship stems from the love of God. When we are in love with someone or something, we commit ourselves to always being engaged with that person or thing. We are enamored by the joys that come from the interaction. We spend time getting to know and learning more about that person or thing. We give of ourselves. “For God so loved the world, that he gave . . .” (John 3:16). God gave Himself to the world to show us real stewardship. Likewise, we are called to give of ourselves to God and the world. He has shown us how to serve. Each day, Jesus would consult with His Father. “I can do nothing of myself” was His constant declaration. Each morning, He would rise early to talk to His Father and learn from Him. Relationship building with God the Father was crucial to Jesus’ stewardship. Likewise, we should spend time with God to learn more about Him so that we can engage in true stewardship, the highest quality of service.

**Stewardship—Knowing the Heart of God** (Job 38; Ps. 50:10; John 10:10; 1 John 2:15)

Knowing the heart of God sweetens the act of stewardship because we will know how to please Him. When God gave to the world, He gave His whole self as a sacrifice. He shared a deep love with humanity, that we might have life and have it more abundantly. He created the world and the things in it for our enjoyment. The things of the world were not made for us to worship. “Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him” (1 John 2:15). The things of the world are only tools to give God glory. When we grow daily in our understanding of the depths of God’s love, then our true acts of stewardship will come to life.

**Stewardship—Talents in Action** (Matt. 25:24–28)

We know the story of the talents very well. The servant who hid the one talent told his master that he was “an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed” (Matt. 25:24). This was his mental understanding of his master’s character. Yet, when we examine the story closely, the master depicted is God. How is it that our loving God could be known as “an hard man”? Even in our society today, many people still have this picture of God in their minds. Are we truly using our talents to share with our society who God really is? Have we spent the time to know God so that we can share with others our personal encounters with Him? The Bible says in Revelation that the saints will overcome by the word of their testimony (Rev. 12:11). Build up your testimony through personal time with God. Stewardship is about our whole self—our time, talents, money, and possessions. They are all to be used in service to share God with the world. Spend time with God and set your talents in motion.

**Stewardship—How to Shine** (Deut. 10:14; 1 Cor. 6:19, 20)

It is easy to talk about stewardship, but it is equally important to share how to go about being a great steward. It first must start in the heart, through developing a relationship with God. It will be easier, then, to know His voice and hear His daily instructions to you. Then it will be time for action. Be you: shine in the gifts, talents, and traits that God has given to you. Your input matters in this world. If you don’t share you, we will miss out on the light you bring to this world. Do what you can, where you can, with what you have. Take the time also to grow and develop your skills. Share your earthly treasures, such as your money and possessions—pay your tithe and give to charitable causes. Be a blessing.

**Enamored by God** (Ps. 33:6–9; Gal. 3:13; Col. 1:13; 1 Thess. 1:10; 1 Pet. 1:18; Heb. 2:14, 15; Rev. 1:5)

Stewardship is an outpouring of the heart’s response to love and a personal relationship with a God who cares. We get to meet God up close and personal; we learn to hear His voice and understand His ways. We become enamored by Him. Such love puts boots on (Matthew 28:19, 20). We will use our gifts, talents, and traits and truly “go . . . therefore, and teach all nations.”

**React**

`1. From your personal devotional life, can you truly say you are swept away by God’s love?`

`2. Identify two ways you can improve in your acts of stewardship.`

_Elaine Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_