---
title:  “Well Done, Good and Faithful Servant!”
date:   15/01/2018
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 25:21

God requires all of us to be faithful stewards of His goods. God expects us to be faithful with whatever He has bestowed to us, however small that may be. God wants us, as His faithful stewards, to dedicate every aspect of our lives to Him because “Christ has purchased us by the price of His own blood. He has paid the purchase money for our redemption, and if we will lay hold upon the treasure, it is ours by the free gift of God.

“ ‘How much owest thou unto my Lord?’ Luke 16:5. It is impossible to tell. All that we have is from God. He lays His hand upon our possessions, saying: ‘I am the rightful owner of the whole universe; these are My goods. Consecrate to Me the tithes and offerings. As you bring these specified goods as a token of your loyalty and your submission to My sovereignty, My blessing shall increase your substance, and you will have abundance.’

“God is testing every soul that claims to believe in Him. All are entrusted with talents. The Lord has given men His goods upon which to trade. He has made them His stewards, and has placed in their possession money, houses, and lands. All these are to be regarded as the Lord’s goods and used to advance His work, to build up His kingdom in the world. In trading with the Lord’s goods, we are to seek Him for wisdom, that we may not use His sacred trust to glorify ourselves or to indulge selfish impulses. The amount entrusted varies, but those who have the smallest gifts must not feel that because their talent of means is small, they can do nothing with it.

“Every Christian is a steward of God, entrusted with His goods. Remember the words: ‘Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.’ 1 Corinthians 4:2. Let us be sure that we are not robbing God in any jots or tittles, for much is involved in this question.”*

Christ is speaking to every human being to heed His call to stewardship. Matthew 25:21 records the testimony of a faithful steward commended by his master for a job well done. This biblical account is a vivid example left for us to emulate and make stewardship a part of our lives.

**React**

`1. What difference would it make if you were owner rather than steward?`

`2. What is the best way to overcome selfishness and be a faithful steward?`

`3. To whom have we become stewards? To God or to money?`

<sup>* Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, pp. 245, 246.</sup>

_James Garang, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_