---
title:  The God Who Provides
date:   16/01/2018
---

**Evidence**: Deut. 8:18; 10:14; Luke 12:13–21

An important cultural script of the ancient Mediterranean world was the belief that physical resources are limited and not expanding.* This view of fixed resources resulted in two attitudes toward material possessions:

1. A desire to share with those who lacked, especially the poor and vulnerable (Deut. 15:7–9).

2. A desire to accumulate and hoard wealth at all costs (Luke 12:13–21).

The Gospel of Luke, sometimes called the Gospel of the Poor, presents powerful teachings about the proper attitude toward material goods. In Luke 12:13–21, Jesus reminds the crowd that life is more than the abundance of possessions by telling the parable of a rich farmer. Jesus calls the rich farmer a fool because he hoards instead of sharing his wealth. Throughout Luke, people are sometimes asked to give up material possessions (see Luke 3:10–14; 18:18–23). The request to give away one’s material goods is not because wealth is bad. The request is to test one fundamental principle— Is the desire for money stronger than the desire for God?

The core of Christian stewardship is that everything belongs to God. The Lord tells ancient Israel that the earth and heavens belong to Him. Sharing our resources is, therefore, an indication of our belief that it is God who provides.

The tendency to hoard not only indicates a lack of faith in the all-providing God but also shows an unhealthy attachment to possessions that will not last.

Deuteronomy brings out another element of people’s attachment to material things as seen in Luke. There is the tendency to forget the providence of God.

In Deuteronomy 8:18, the Lord asks the people to remember that He gives them strength to labor and earn wealth. Remembering the Lord as Creator, Owner, and Provider helps to regulate our attitude toward our earthly possessions.

We will not make idols out of money and material things. Inasmuch as we value what we have, a loving relationship with God is far more important.

Even in a society where resources are limited, the believer has no problem in sharing with others. Our service of stewardship flows from a recognition that God provides everything. All that we possess, while valuable, is transient. Our desire is not to accumulate wealth but to be steadfast in the God who provides for all our needs.

<sup>* Bruce J. Malina, The New Testament World: Insights From Cultural Anthropology (Louisville, Ky.: Westminster John Knox Press, 2001), pp. 108–118.</sup>

_Randy Goldson, Elkins Park, Pennsylvania, USA_