---
title:  Stewarding Our Finances
date:   17/01/2018
---

**How-to**: Deut. 10:14; Ps. 50:10; 1 Cor. 6:19, 20

Money seems to be a taboo topic in many churches, but I believe that financial prosperity is a great blessing when used for God’s glory. Stewarding our financial resources in such a way that they can bless others also blesses our Creator; He blesses those who are faithful with what they have been given and who prove themselves to be good and trustworthy stewards. Here are some ways that we can practice financial stewardship:

Pray for the right heart and mind-set. “Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me” (Ps. 51:10, NIV). One of the first things we need to do is become right with God in our hearts and have the right attitude toward stewardship of our money. Money is a tool that we can use to further God’s kingdom and bless others.

Have a budget and live below your means. Living a debt-free lifestyle is a major value of mine, and if it is one of yours, then it is important to stick to a monthly budget and live on less than you make so that you are able to designate some of your finances for saving and some for giving. Be faithful with the resources with which you have been blessed.

Have a giving account. On top of your monthly tithes, have an amount that you can give to other projects, missions, or individuals in need. We have the beautiful privilege of partnering with God to finish His work and the awesome responsibility of using what we have been given to do that. God blesses those who give, but it is not for the purpose of receiving blessings that we give; we give when we have the right attitude that comes from a renewed heart.

Realize that everything you have does not belong to you. I think that one of the most freeing moments that I’ve experienced, when it comes to money, is that nothing I have is mine; it all belongs to God. Everything in this universe is His, and He can choose what He will do with it. If God has entrusted me with something, that’s great! At the same time, if God chooses to take it away, that’s great too. We are stewards of what is His, and because of that, we may realize that all we have is because of God’s goodness and love.

Self-reflect. Take time to reflect on things to which you are emotionally attached, be it money, material things, activities, or even people. Anything that comes before God in our lives is an idol and takes the place of God in our hearts. Take time to search your heart and ask God to cleanse you from whatever your struggle is.

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_