---
title:  Stewards for Growth
date:   18/01/2018
---

**Opinion**: Job 38:36

Each individual is called to cultivate and utilize their unique gifts, talents, and traits. Despite knowledge of this divine appointment, we as Christians often neglect to commit to this work.

Some Christians create invisible barriers to self-growth, confusing humility with inferiority, modesty with fear, and indecision with sloth. Many churches also fall short, creating environments that rank members’ abilities in hierarchies of value and admirability. When this is the case, individuals’ aptitudes and potential can go unnoticed and underdeveloped until they are weakened, lost, and forgotten.

The Bible calls us not to let our talents shrink into obscurity but to use and build upon them. The parable of the talents in Matthew 25:14–30 illustrates this well. In the story, the master entrusts each servant with resources, providing little instruction on how to employ them. In an act of faith and creativity, two servants take a risk to use the resources and earn the master a better return. In fear, and likely idleness, one servant buries his resources, doing nothing. The parable shows us that when we cultivate our talents, the master (God) blesses us with even more.

The story also warns against missing opportunities. When the master returns and confronts the lazy servant, he predicts a life of sorrow for the servant. We can take this to mean that when we don’t make use of the opportunities we have, we risk living lives of mediocrity, falling far short of fulfilling the plans God has for us. Therefore, the next time you think about stewardship, think about the unique personality traits, skills, abilities, interests, and talents you have and how you can develop them. Furthermore, pray for faith and an open door so you can fulfill the destiny God has for you.

**React**

`1. What does Job 38:4–11 tell us about the origin of our abilities and talents?`

`2. What can you do to make your church an environment that facilitates personal growth?`

`3. Several women and men in the Bible had dual or multiple abilities (e.g., David was a king and a songwriter). What does this tell us about how we should cultivate our gifts?`

_Shauna Spence, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_