---
title:  Choose Today to Put Your Time and Money Where Your Mouth Is
date:   19/01/2018
---

**Exploration**: Job 38:4–11; John 3:16; 5:19

**Conclude**

God has given us Jesus’ example of obedience to encourage us to see how a loving relationship with Him builds us up into reliable stewards of His gifts. Jesus wanted only to mirror His Father’s actions and admit His own helplessness without His Father’s love (John 5:19). God also loved us before we even knew Him at all, and because of this infinite love, He “gave His only Son” to die for our sins, so that we might live. What greater love is there? God is our Creator, and Jesus is our Model. When we focus on His love, we are stirred to become obedient stewards of the world and resources He gave us—human, financial, and material.

**Consider**

- Planning a father-son and/or mother-daughter fun day, in the context of John 5:19, “I can do nothing on my own. I can only do what I see my dad doing.” Create fun activities where fathers and sons and/or mothers and daughters can spend the day together, making special memories forever.
- Hosting a talent show for your church or youth group. You could fundraise for a local charity; begin the program by reading Matthew 25:24– 28, and talk about your desire to share your talents to glorify God.
- Writing a skit for Friday night vespers to show the relationship between the love that God has for us and our response of stewardship. You could have John 3:16 as your focus for “gift giving.”
- Reading 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20 and spending some time thinking about active ways to celebrate that your body is the temple of God. Work with a local Pathfinder/AY Club to plan a Healthy Living Day with games, aerobics, and other activities.
- Collecting clothes and household items to donate to a local Adventist Community Services or homeless shelter. Tell them why you chose to be a good steward and volunteer to spend some time with them.
- Talking with your local government park official about how your church or youth group could act as stewards of the land by volunteering at a park or other natural land site.

**Connect**

1. Zechariah 4:10; Luke 16:10–12
2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 229, 230.
3. Max Lucado, Cure for the Common Life: Living in Your Sweet Spot, chapter 13: “Trust Little Deeds.”

_Stephanie Yamniuk, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada_