---
title:  Stand Strong in the Lord!
date:   10/09/2023
---

`Read what Paul writes in Ephesians 6:10–20. What does Paul ask Christians to do? Today, God asks us to join Him in the fight against Satan. This fight is the worldwide war between good and evil. What do Paul’s words mean for us, today, as God’s soldiers?`

Paul wants members of the church to understand that their work for God is the same as a real war with weapons. So, Paul preaches to them a “war sermon” to help them get ready to fight the battle against evil. Paul starts his war sermon by saying, “Finally, let the Lord make you strong. Depend on his mighty power [strength]” (Ephesians 6:10, NIrV). Then Paul commands church members to put on the whole battle suit of God (Ephesians 6:11). Then members will be ready to stand against the devil’s clever tricks (Ephesians 6:11). Paul tells his readers that the war they fight is against the powerful, spiritual army of evil (Ephesians 6:12). Satan is the general of this evil army. Again, Paul tells his readers to put on the whole battle suit of God. Then they will stand strong in the fight (Ephesians 6:13). God’s battle suit includes many parts: belt, chest piece, shoes, shield, helmet, and sword (Ephesians 6:14–17). In this suit, Christians will be ready to fight. Paul also invites his readers to do what wise soldiers did before they marched into battle: they prayed (Ephesians 6:18–20).

In the Old Testament, God’s prophets, or special messengers, preached war sermons to Israel’s army before they went to fight the enemy (read Deuteronomy 20:2–4; Judges 7:15–18; 2 Chronicles 20:13–20; 2 Chronicles 32:6–8; Nehemiah 4:14, 19, 20). In these sermons, the prophets said that Israel’s success in battle didn’t depend on weapons or the size of their army. Israel’s success in battle depended on God and His might. When Israel trusted in God and not their own strength, they won. Paul uses these ideas from the Old Testament to help church members understand four important ideas: (1) God gave the church work to do. The church must do it. (2) Satan, their enemy, works hard to destroy their work and their lives, even if they can’t see him. (3) God gives us everything we need to win the fight against Satan. (4) The church must work together.

`Paul warns us that we fight against evil angels. What is our only hope to win this fight?`