---
title:  Finding Strength in Jesus
date:   11/09/2023
---

`Read again Paul’s “war sermon” in Ephesians 6:10–20. What part does the worldwide war between good and evil have in Paul’s message? Why is understanding this Bible truth so important to our faith each day?`

Paul tells us where we get our strength: “Finally, let the Lord make you strong” (Ephesians 6:10, NIrV). Our strength comes from the Lord. The Lord is Jesus Christ (also, read Ephesians 2:21; Ephesians 4:1, 17; Ephesians 6:1, 21). “The Church gets her strength from the Lord Jesus who woke up from the dead. Now He is the Captain who leads His church in the fight against evil.”—G. G. Findlay, The Epistle to the Ephesians (New York: Ray Long and Richard R. Smith, 1931), page 398, adapted.

In Ephesians 6:10, Paul wants us to understand an important Bible truth. The church’s strength doesn’t come from its members. The church’s strength comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. This Bible truth shows us another important idea in Paul’s letter: God shares His strength with His followers (Ephesians 1:19–22; Ephesians 2:4–6; Ephesians 3:16, 17). Strength for every fight, now and in the future, comes only from our connection with Jesus.

Jesus isn’t the only One who gives us strength. All Three Members of the Three-in-One God work together to make us strong. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit get us ready to fight against evil. God the Father gives us His own weapons. We learned about these weapons yesterday. God gives us His battle suit (Ephesians 6:11, 13; compare Isaiah 59:17). In an earlier lesson, we learned that the Holy Spirit makes Christians strong. Paul prays that God will send His Holy Spirit to Christians to make their hearts and minds strong (Ephesians 3:16). The Spirit gives Christians the “sword,” which is the Bible (Ephesians 6:17). Also, Christians must remember to “pray in the Spirit at all times” (Ephesians 6:18, ERV). Paul wants his readers to understand that the Three-in-One God will get them ready to fight against Satan and his evil army.