---
title:  God and Satan
date:   12/09/2023
---

`Read Romans 13:11–14; 1 Thessalonians 5:6–8; and 2 Corinthians 10:3–6. How do these verses compare with Ephesians 6:10–20? What word pictures does Paul use in each set of verses? Why does Paul use these word pictures?`

As we already saw, Paul uses word pictures about war and battles to explain Bible truth. Paul invites Christians to fight as soldiers in the war against evil. Paul uses word pictures about war and battles to help his readers understand the Good News about Jesus. At the cross, Jesus won the fight against Satan and his evil angels (Colossians 2:15). Now Jesus fights for us in heaven. Jesus signs us up to join His army. Jesus leads His army into battle to win the war against Satan (1 Corinthians 15:54–58; 2 Thessalonians 2:8; Romans 16:20). As we read Paul’s letters, we see that Paul understands that the worldwide war between good and evil “has been happening for a long time. This war has been fought at different times and places in human history. God’s army fights against Satan’s army, and the earth is the battlefield. God and Satan will continue to fight this war until one army wins the final battle.”—Peter W. Macky, Saint Paul’s Cosmic War Myth: A Military Version of the Gospel (New York: Peter Lang, 1998), page 1, adapted.

In Paul’s “war sermon” (Ephesians 6:10–20), he talks about several ideas he already shared with us: (1) God makes Christians strong with His might (Ephesians 1:18–20; Ephesians 3:16, 20). (2) Jesus wins the fight against Satan and his evil angels (Ephesians 1:20–23). (3) In the past, we were dead. But now, Jesus gives us new life and invites us to join His army. Jesus gives us strength to fight against Satan, our old master (Ephesians 2:1–10). (4) God gives us the job of showing Satan and His angels that God is wise (Ephesians 3:10). (5) Paul uses Psalm 68:18 to show that Jesus is a powerful Warrior from heaven (Ephesians 4:7–11). (6) Paul commands Christians to “put on [wear]” the Good News about Jesus the same as clothes (Ephesians 4:24, NKJV). The Good News is the same as a battle suit. When we wear God’s battle suit, we are ready to understand the worldwide war between God and Satan. Then we will have hope that Jesus will share with us His success against Satan.