---
title:  Standing on the Battlefield
date:   13/09/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 6:10–20. How many times in these verses does Paul use the word “stand” or “standing”? Why is this idea so important to Paul?`

What does Paul mean when he says that we must “stand strong” (Ephesians 6:14, ERV)? “Stand” is a military word picture that shows how soldiers fought in battle. If we want to understand how soldiers “stood” and fought in Bible times, we need to read the battle speeches of Thucydides. Thucydides was a writer who lived during Bible times. Thucydides wrote a lot about war. Thucydides said that an army must do three things to win a war: (1) Soldiers must march to meet their enemies. (2) Soldiers must attack the enemy and stand to fight them hand-to-hand. The soldiers must not run away. (3)   Soldiers must push back the enemy (read Thucydides, The Peloponnesian War [New York: E.P. Dutton, 1910], 4.10.1–5).

The most important part of the battle happened when the two armies crashed into each other. Then they made “a terrible noise. Brass armor and weapons, wooden shields, and bodies all came crashing together.”—Victor Davis Hanson, The Western Way of War (New York: Oxford University Press, 1989), pages 152, adapted. If an army wanted to win the fight, they must stand firm and strong at this time. They must not run away when the other army ran toward them and tried to push them back.

So, when Paul tells Christians to “stand strong” (Ephesians 6:14, ERV), he wants them to see a picture of soldiers “fighting close together. The soldiers are fighting hand-to-hand with the enemy. The soldiers are giving hundreds of blows and getting hit up close by hundreds of blows.”—Victor Davis Hanson, The Western Way of War, page 152, adapted. That is why Paul says that the church’s war against Satan and his army of evil angels is the same as a hand-to-hand fight (Ephesians 6:12; also, read Thursday’s study for more information on this topic).

What does this word picture about war teach us? It teaches us that we must not relax in our fight against Satan and his evil angels. We must use every weapon that Jesus gives us to win the fight (read Philippians 1:27).

`Read Hebrews 12:4. How does our study for today help us to understand better the meaning of Hebrews 12:4?`