---
title:  Fighting Against Evil
date:   14/09/2023
---

`What are some of the different names that Paul gives to the evil spiritual powers we fight against? Read Ephesians 1:21; Ephesians 3:10; and Ephesians 6:10–20 for the answers.`

Paul talks about our fight against evil spiritual powers (Ephesians 6:12). Paul says this fight is the same as the sport of wrestling. Wrestling is a sport between two fighters or wrestlers. One wrestler tries to hold the other wrestler down so that he can’t move or get up. The person who wins the wrestling match is the one who throws or forces the other person to the ground. In Paul’s time, many soldiers practiced wrestling to get ready for war and to be good soldiers. So, the sport of wrestling is a good word picture for the hand-to-hand fighting that happens when two armies fight each other. Paul uses wrestling as a word picture to help us understand the real fight that happens between Christians and evil angels.

In Ephesians 1:21, Paul says that Jesus is above all evil powers. Jesus is more powerful than they are, too. Does that mean we can relax and take it easy in the spiritual war against evil? Paul warns us that we don’t fight only against human enemies. We fight against evil angels (Ephesians 6:12). Satan is their general (Ephesians 6:11). So, we must be ready at all times to fight. We must stay strong in the faith. At the same time, we don’t need to be afraid. God is with us in the fight (Ephesians 6:10). God gives us the best weapons to fight with. God gives us His own battle suit (Ephesians 6:11; compare Isaiah 59:15–17). God also gives us Bible truth, His holy life, peace, faith, mercy, His promise to save us, and His Holy Spirit (Ephesians 6:13–17). God goes ahead of us into the war. God covers us from head to toe in His battle suit. So, there’s no way we can fail (Romans 16:20; 1 Corinthians 15:23, 24; 2 Thessalonians 2:8)!

`We can’t fight against the powers of evil on our own. We need help. Jesus is stronger than Satan and all his evil angels. Jesus won the fight against them at the cross. Why is holding on to Jesus our only hope if we want to win the fight against evil?`