---
title:  Additional thought
date:   15/09/2023
---

“In our work for God, we must be strong if we want to succeed. As loyal soldiers for Jesus, we must share the Good News in places that are under Satan’s control. ‘Our fight is not with people. It is against the leaders and the powers and the spirits of darkness [evil] in this world. It is against the demon world [Satan and his angels] that works in the heavens’ [Ephesians 6:12, NLV]. What if we stop fighting? What if we decide to relax? What if we let Satan make us his prisoners? Will we be free from the fight and all the suffering that comes with it? Yes, we will. But the peace we will get from this decision will come at a terrible price. We will lose Jesus and heaven. We can’t accept peace that comes from losing Jesus. It is better for us to fight to the end of earth’s history than for us to get peace that comes from leaving God and choosing sin.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, May 8, 1888, adapted.

“Did you know that Ephesians 6:10–20 shows us many of the same ideas that we find in the book of Revelation? Both Ephesians 6:10–20 and the book of Revelation teach us the same basic idea about the end times (read Revelation 12; Revelation 16:12–16; Revelation 19:17–21; Revelation 20:7–10). In both Ephesians 6:10–20 and the book of Revelation, we learn that God’s people are under attack by an enemy who came from heaven. This powerful enemy, Satan, is hard at work today. In both Ephesians 6:10–20 and the book of Revelation, God’s people are encouraged by God’s promises about the future life in heaven. Also, both Ephesians 6:10–20 and the book of Revelation show the final fight when Jesus will win the war against Satan and his army. Then God’s kingdom will continue forever. Satan and his army will be destroyed, and God’s people will live with Him in glory forever.”—Yordan Kalev Zhekov, Eschatology of Ephesians (Osijek, Croatia: Evangelical Theological Seminary, 2005), pages 217, 233–235, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`When have you fought against evil angels? What helped you the most at those times?`

`How can you help someone who is being hurt by evil angels? What help do you find in Ephesians 6:10–20?`

`How do we best “fight against the devil’s evil tricks” (Ephesians 6:11, ERV)?`