---
title: 'An Impossible Mission'
date: 26/10/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 5, 6

**An Impossible Mission**

The story of Jericho speaks to everyone who’s been called by God to accomplish a seemingly impossible mission. In popular songs, art, literature, and sermons, this story has become a symbol of hope for those who rely on God to fight their battles. For people who live by faith, this story is not just an exciting tale for kids, but a call to give God room to work in our lives. At some point, God allows everybody to face their own Jericho—a challenge that looms large and seems impossible to overcome.

As a well-fortified city on the eastern border of Canaan, Jericho was positioned to block the advance of invading armies from the east. The inhabitants of this city had long anticipated the arrival of the Israelites. Forty years earlier, they had been terrified by the news of God miraculously delivering His people from Egypt and dividing the Red Sea to save them (Josh. 2:10). Because Israel had circled in the wilderness for forty years, Jericho’s army had had time to build up their armaments and make every preparation for war. When the Israelites pitched their camp directly across the river Jordan from Jericho, the inhabitants of the city would’ve hurried to finish stockpiling food, ammunition, and other necessities in case of siege. As the Israelites crossed the river and drew nearer, the people of Jericho were apprehensive, not knowing exactly when the battle would begin. Their careful vigilance was illustrated by the actions of their king, who quickly dispatched scouts to pursue the Israelite spies as soon as he heard about their unwelcome presence (Josh. 2:3–7).

The gates were locked, watchmen were stationed, and the city prepared itself. In seemingly stark contrast, Israel had no battering rams or other equipment to breach the walls. By all human measures, the risk of mass casualties was extremely high for the Israelites. Though modern readers know the outcome of the story, Joshua in the moment didn’t see any practical way to take the military stronghold. Without God’s help, Israel was destined for disaster. It’s no wonder that Joshua stepped away from the camp to spend time alone with God. Many questions must have swirled through his mind as he looked at the high walls of the fortified city. Even so, he trusted that the God who had led them across the flooding Jordan would provide a way to accomplish this next task.

God had spoken to Joshua before this instance (e.g., Josh. 1:1; 3:7; 4:1, 15; 5:2, 9), and as Joshua’s challenges increased, so did God’s presence. As Joshua approached the Lord in prayer, an armed warrior appeared suddenly before him with sword drawn. Joshua was immediately on guard, calling out, “Are you for us or for our adversaries?” (Josh. 5:13). The warrior replied, “No, but as Commander of the army of the LORD I have now come” (v. 14). It must have surprised Joshua to hear this warrior declare that He was neither for Israel nor for their adversaries. God cannot be categorized by human allegiances. As Commander of the Lord’s army, He came not only as the Leader of Israel but also as the “Lord of all the earth” (3:11, 13), the One who is over all and who transcends all.

At this proclamation, Joshua immediately humbled himself and fell on his face to worship, asking, “What does my Lord say to His servant?” (v. 14). As in the story of Moses before the burning bush, the Commander instructed Joshua to remove his sandals because he was standing on holy ground.

God then gave Joshua the battle plans for the conquest of Jericho. The warfare would be unconventional, to say the least. A procession of priests blowing rams’ horns and priests bearing the ark of the covenant were followed by long lines of soldiers marching around the city walls once a day for seven days. On the seventh day, the procession was instructed to circle the walls seven times. When they completed the final circuit, the priests were to give a long blast of their horns and the men of war were to give a loud shout. At this sound, the walls of Jericho would fall flat, enabling Israel to take the city.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 6:15–19 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 5, 6._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `