---
title: 'The Walls Come Down'
date: 27/10/2025
---

### inGest

When Israel faced Pharaoh’s armies at the Red Sea, God gave them a simple message of encouragement: “The LORD will fight for you, and you shall hold your peace” (Exod. 14:14). God kept His promise by parting the Red Sea and destroying Pharaoh’s army. When Israel faced the fortified stronghold of Jericho, God wanted to teach them a similar lesson. There wouldn’t be a bloody, prolonged siege. They would not starve the city or undertake an elaborate military strategy. Instead, Israel would adopt God’s strategy. It’s easy to imagine the growing apprehension of the people of Jericho as they watched the strange procession circle their city day after day. According to Rahab, they had all heard about Israel’s God (Josh. 2:11); they knew He was a God who operated differently from the lifeless Canaanite deities. On the seventh day, they watched with growing alarm as the marching column circled the city seven times instead of just once. Amid the mounting tension came the unexpected blow: the priests blew their trumpets, the people shouted, and the entirety of the almost impregnable walls of Jericho collapsed—all except for the small section of the wall where sat a single home with a scarlet cord fluttering in its window.

Jericho fell because God fought for Israel, who trusted God’s strategy more than anything they could come up with on their own. As God brought the walls of Jericho tumbling down, He commanded the Israelites to enter the city and slay everyone except for Rahab and her family, because she had protected the two Israelite spies (Josh. 6:17). Everything that breathed, including the animals, was destroyed, and the other spoils were absolutely off limits for any Israelite. Everything in Jericho was considered “accursed” and had to be left untouched lest they bring trouble to the Israelite camp (v. 18). All the gold, silver, bronze, and iron were consecrated to God and brought into the treasury of the sanctuary, but everything else was burned, the city reduced to ashes.

As this was the first battle in Canaan, God claimed everything for Himself as a kind of first fruits of the land (Exod. 23:19). This was not a battle for ambitious gain. It was commanded by God, won via a direct miracle from heaven, and guided by strict rules that forbade the victors from profiting from the battle.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`How do we know when we’re fighting God’s battles and when we’re fighting our own? What’s the difference?`