---
title: 'Surgical Operations'
date: 28/10/2025
---

### inTerpret

Sometimes people think the conquest of Canaan required an indiscriminate slaughter of people. However, God’s judgment against the Canaanite nations was a surgical process that carefully cut out evil while still preserving every life that could be saved. From the first battle in Canaan, we see God’s desire to spare whomever He could. Although Jericho was one of the cities that God determined must be destroyed, He was careful to protect the lives of Rahab and all her family.

Of all the people in Jericho that God might’ve spared, Rahab seemed like an unlikely candidate. The first thing the Bible says about her is that she was a prostitute (Josh. 2:1). However, she saved the lives of the Israelite spies during their reconnaissance mission inside the city. At the risk of her own life, she hid the spies in her house, which was part of the city walls. When the spies first arrived, she told them she believed in the success of their mission and the supremacy of their God: “For the LORD your God, He is God in heaven above and on earth beneath” (Josh. 2:11). She begged them to spare her life and the lives of all her family when Jericho fell. Because of her faith, the spies promised to protect their lives if she would help them escape. Throwing a scarlet cord out her window, she provided the spies a way to safely slip down the city wall and take shelter in the nearby hills. However, they did not leave without first strictly telling her to leave that scarlet cord hanging in her window so the people in her house would be saved from destruction. That scarlet cord was a sign of her secret alliance with Israel and their God.

Rahab’s story is a powerful reminder that God accepts people from every nation (Acts 10:34, 35). Although God commanded the conquest of Canaan as an act of judgment against wicked nations, He always provided an opportunity for deliverance to anyone willing to reach for it. This Canaanite woman’s words and actions were a powerful testimony to the faith she cherished in her heart. Despite her past life of sexual immorality, this woman found a new home among God’s covenant people. Beyond that, she became an ancestor of Jesus, which makes her an important piece of the gospel story (Matt. 1:5). Rahab is the kind of person Jesus came into this world to save, and is the type of person God uses to bless others.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`When have you felt like an outsider? How does Rahab’s story give you hope?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 5, 6. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._