---
title: 'Circumcision and Passover'
date: 30/10/2025
---

### inVite

The battle of Jericho revealed that invisible forces were fighting these battles. The walls of Jericho tumbled down without the Israelites wielding a single piece of weaponry. Joshua would not allow the people to think they had gained the victory in their own strength. He emphasized that “The LORD has given you the city!” (Josh. 6:16). As this was a spiritual battle, the Israelites had to first be consecrated to God and be in compliance with all His requirements. Before the battle began, Joshua prepared the camp spiritually for what was about to happen. He did this through two ceremonial rituals: circumcision and the Passover.

Circumcision had been given to Abraham as a sign of the covenant established between him and God (Gen. 17:10, 11). Circumcision indicated commitment to an ongoing covenantal relationship with God, where both parties chose to be faithful to each other. While the generation of Israelites who had left Egypt had been circumcised, their children who had been born in the wilderness had not (Josh. 5:5). Joshua hastened to fix this oversight, and this round of circumcision symbolized Israel’s renewed consecration to God, which was a necessary element of their conquest. “Then the LORD said to Joshua, ‘This day I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you’ ” (v. 9). Israel’s sojourn in Egypt was a biblical symbol of captivity to sin and Satan. The lesson for Israel at this juncture was significant. Before they could face their giants and defeat them, they needed to be cleansed from their sins, which was possible only through faith in God and His power to save. Circumcision was an act of faith, signifying entire consecration and commitment.

Celebrating the Passover further reminded the Israelites that they would suffer the destroying angel’s blow unless they were covered by the blood of the lamb (Exod. 12:13, 23). In faith, Israel applied the blood of their sacrificial lambs to their doorposts. By faith, they were saved from destruction. Only the blood of the lamb, symbolic of Jesus’ blood, could save them from the enemies they faced in Canaan and give them victory.

Consecration is just as necessary in our lives today. Victory over Satan in any area of our lives is possible only through faith in Jesus. As Christ Himself said, “I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing” (John 15:5). Only by abiding in Christ can we defeat the giants of fear, anxiety, addiction, and sin in our lives. Only Christ, our Passover Lamb (1 Cor. 5:7), can save us from sin and lead us safely home to heaven. May we rest our hope for salvation wholly in Him.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`What does it look like to live a life completely consecrated to God?`