---
title: inQuire
date: 01/11/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**The city of Jericho:**

1. How much success could the Israelites expect if they fought Jericho without God’s help? Why? _Read Deut. 1:28–30; 3:21, 22._
2. What can we know about the city of Jericho and its leaders from the story of the Israelite spies? _Read Josh. 2:1–13._
3. According to Rahab’s speech to the spies, how much did the people of Jericho know about the Israelites? _Notice Josh. 2:9–11._

`Personal reflection: What insurmountable obstacles are you facing in your life? How is God calling you to move forward?`

**The harlot Rahab:**

1. What evidence did Rahab give of her faith in Israel’s God? _Pay attention to her speech recorded in Josh. 2._
2. What’s the significance of Rahab and her family being accepted into God’s covenant people and Rahab becoming one of Jesus’ ancestors (Matt. 1:5)? _Consider how her story illustrates the teaching of Acts 10:34, 35._

**Going to battle:**

1. How did Israel prepare for the battle with Jericho? Why was circumcision and the Passover important at that time? _See Josh. 5:1–12._
2. What lessons did Joshua learn from His encounter with God just before battle? _See Josh. 5:13–15._
3. How did Jericho fall? What was God’s part? What was the Israelites’ part? _See Josh. 6._
4. What are the conditions for God to do great things for us?

`Personal reflection: What might you need to surrender to God to allow Him to work more fully in your life?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- God loves to bring His people up against impossible challenges so He can show Himself strong.
- God delights in saving the most unlikely people.
- Full consecration is needed before God can fight for us.