---
title:  LET US LIVE THE GOOD NEWS
date:   31/08/2019
---

`READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON: John 3:16, 17; Matthew 9:36; Ephesians 2:8–10; Malachi 2:10; Revelation 14:6, 7.`

MEMORY VERSE: “You have been saved by grace [God’s loving favor] because you believed. You did not save yourselves; it was a gift from God. You are not saved by the things you have done, so there is nothing to boast [brag] about. God has made us what we are. In Christ Jesus, God made us new people so that we would [will] spend our lives doing the good things he had already planned for us to do” (Ephesians 2:8–10, ERV).

WE MUST BE CAREFUL when we talk about God’s commands. We must not think that somehow we can do anything to save ourselves. We must not think we can earn God’s favor either. Our good works can never save us. The Bible tells us again and again that we are saved by God’s loving favor. Only our faith in Jesus’ death for us on the cross saves us. Can we hope to save ourselves by adding our good works to Jesus’ death? Not at all! Ellen G. White writes, “Let us say you made a list of everything good, holy, and lovely about humans. Then you showed that list to God’s angels. You told the angels that these things had a part in saving humans. What will the angels say about that? The angels will say your words are not loyal to God. They will turn away from them.”—Faith and Works, page 24, adapted.

In the same way, our helping the poor does not save us. But when we help the poor, we learn more about God’s love for us. We also understand more clearly what God did to save us. We understand better His love for us too.

*When we help the poor, we learn more about God’s love for us.*