---
title: 'God So Very Much Loved The World All People Who Ever Lived On The Earth'
date: 01/09/2019
---

John 3:16, says, “ ‘God so [very much] loved the world [all people who ever lived on the earth] that he gave his one and only Son [Jesus]. Anyone who believes in him [Jesus] will not die but will have eternal [everlasting] life’ ” (NIrV). The word for “world” is written as “kosmos” in Greek. “Kosmos” means “this planet with all the life on it that God made.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 5, page 929, adapted. John 3:16 is about God’s plan to save humans. But this plan also includes the earth too. God will make it new again. 

`Read Romans 8:20–23. What do these verses teach us about God’s big plan to save humans?`

God’s plan to save us is more than forgiveness for our sins. He makes us new. He saves us to serve Him. He invites us to become part of His family. As part of His family, we show other people God’s love by the good works we do.

`Read John 3:16, 17. How does verse 17 help us understand verse 16?`

We know that God loves other people just as much as He loves us. God loves the people we love. That makes us happy. God also loves the people we help. But He also loves the people who hurt us. He loves the ones who make us afraid. God loves all people, everywhere. He even loves the people we may not like very much.

The Bible says that nature shows us that God is good: “ ‘Your Father causes the sun to rise on good people and on bad people. Your Father sends rain to those [people] who do good and to those [people] who do wrong’ ” (Matthew 5:45, ICB). Life is a gift from God. Some people may choose to turn away from God. They may choose not to love Him. But God loves everyone, even the ones who do not love Him back.

`God loves every person. He made everyone. How does this truth change the way you think and feel about other people?`

*“ ‘Your Father causes the sun to rise on good people and on bad people’ ” (Matthew 5:45, ICB).*