---
title:  LOVE FOR GOD AND TURNING AWAY FROM SIN
date:   02/09/2019
---

We are sinners. Our planet is filled with sin. Life on this earth is not what God made it to be. Humans were made to look the same as God. He made us to be the same as He is in many ways. And we can see that even now. But we live on a planet that is hurt by sin. This sin is part of us and our lives. This same sin causes so much pain and hurt on this earth. 

No wonder we feel hurt and sad at all the awful things that happen. It is right for us to feel this way. Look at the sad psalms in the Bible. Look at the writing of Jeremiah. Look at the tears Jesus cried. Look at His love. You will see that Jesus and these other people felt sorrow when they saw the evil done on this earth. What hurt them the most? When they saw other people hurt by evil.

`Read about Jesus in Matthew 9:36; Matthew 14:14; Luke 19:41, 42; and John 11:35. Jesus felt the pain of other people very deeply. He cared about them. What caused Jesus to feel deep love for other people? How can we have a heart that is full of the same love for other people too?`

We need to remember something about sin and evil. Sin and evil are not just done by bad people. Our sin hurts people too. “Suppose [what if] we claim [tell other people] we are without [do not] sin. Then we are fooling ourselves. The truth is not in us” (1 John 1:8, NIrV). Bible writers taught that sin was awful. Yes, they believe sin was awful because it broke God’s law. But more than that, sin breaks God’s heart. It breaks our connection with God. Our sin hurts other people. That is why sin is so evil. 

What is the reason for the evil you see in life? Why are people poor? Why are leaders not fair? The answer to these questions is sin. That is why people are selfish, greedy, mean, and full of hate. That is why they do not care about other people. What can we do to stop this evil? We can confess our sin to God. We can let God’s love control our hearts. “But if we confess our sins, God will forgive us. We can trust God to do this. He always does what is right. He will make us clean from all the wrong things we have done” (1 John 1:9, ERV).

`In what ways has sin hurt you? How has your own sin hurt other people? What is the only way to solve this problem?`

*Jesus felt sad at all the evil done on this earth.*