---
title: 'God S Loving Favor And Good Works'
date: 03/09/2019
---

`In your own words, explain what Ephesians 2:8–10 is saying. What do these verses show us about the connection between God’s loving–favor and good works?`

The Bible says God made us to worship Him. He also made us to serve other people. It is hard to make a picture in your mind about our living on an earth with no sin, right? We can only wonder about that.

For now, we know we live in a world filled with sin. At the same time, Jesus’ death on the cross makes healing and forgiveness possible. Yes, sin has hurt life on this earth. But with God’s help, we can work with Him to heal the hurt we see in the lives of other people (read Ephesians 2:10). “God gives to us so that we can help other people. People everywhere need help. God asks us to gladly help people in need.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry [work we do for God] of Healing, page 103, adapted. 

Let us be clear again. God asks us to take care of the poor. He asks us to feed the hungry. We do not do these good works to earn God’s favor. We cannot “buy” God’s love with the good works we do. Our good works will not make Him save us. He saves us because of Jesus. In Jesus, we have everything we will ever need to be saved. We see that we are sinners. We see that we are hurt by sin. But God loves us anyway. He saves us. Yes, we will continue to fight against sin. We must fight against being greedy and selfish. But God offers us a new life. His love will change our lives.

What do we see when we look at the Cross? We see Jesus’ perfect gift for our sins. We can add nothing to what Jesus offers us. So, how should we answer God’s offer to save us? Does that mean we should do nothing? Not at all! True, we cannot save ourselves. But we must accept what God does to save us. What is the best way to do that? By our showing love to other people. 

`Read 1 John 3:16, 17. How do these verses show us what our answer to the Cross should be?`

*What do we see when we look at the Cross? We see Jesus’ perfect gift for our sins.*