---
title:  HOW ARE HUMANS ALL THE SAME?
date:   04/09/2019
---

Jesus taught that we should help everyone in need. He did not turn away from anyone who came to Him. Many people came to Jesus that nobody liked. Women who were sinners came to Jesus. So did tax collectors. And people who were very sick. No one wanted to touch them. Roman soldiers came to Jesus too. Religious leaders and children also came to Jesus. What did Jesus do? He welcomed them all. The New Testament church learned that Jesus wanted believers to welcome people too. Jesus wanted His church to welcome other people to accept His gift of everlasting life. 

The first Christians slowly started to learn that the Good News was for everyone. Jesus’ work on earth, His life, and His death showed His followers something important. He wanted them to do good works. He wanted them to help other people. At first, Jesus’ followers had trouble understanding what Jesus wanted them to do. Just look at Peter (Acts 10:9–20). The New Testament church had a hard time understanding this truth too (read Acts 15). But soon they understood that Jesus wanted them to share His love and Good News with everyone.

**What do each of the verses below teach us about our connection to other people? How are we all the same? How should the ideas in these verses change our thoughts and feelings about other people?**

`Malachi 2:10`

`Acts 17:26`

`Romans 3:23`

`Galatians 3:28`

Galatians 3:28 teaches us the same lesson that Jesus taught in the picture story about the good Samaritan. What is its message for us? Jesus does not want us to waste our time arguing about who we should help. He just wants us to go help people. Be ready to be helped by other people too. You may not expect help from them when you go to help them out. But our helping each other is all part of God’s big plan to save humans. God’s love and His Good News ties everyone together. His love makes us one with other people.

*Women who were sinners came to Jesus. So did tax collectors and Roman soldiers. Jesus welcomed them all.*