---
title: 'The Good News That Continues Forever'
date: 05/09/2019
---

Jesus commands His followers to share the Good News with “the people living on earth—to every nation, tribe, language, and race of people” (Revelation 14:6, ERV). The book of Revelation tells us about what will happen when God’s people will share this message at the end of time. 

`Read the First Angel’s Message in Revelation 14:6, 7. What message about the Good News do we find in verse 7? How is this message the same as John 3:16?`

Revelation 14:7 talks about three important topics that God cares about: 

**God Will Judge the Dead and the Living**. During every age in history, God’s people cried out to God to judge the evil people who hurt them. The Bible shows us that God hears the cries of suffering people. What do the Psalms often tell us? God’s work as Judge is good news for hurting people.

**Worship God**. Old Testament writers often show us a connection between worship and good works. Many people who say they are God’s followers do evil things. In Isaiah 58, God tells us about the worship He accepts. He loves to see His followers worship Him by doing kind acts and taking care of the poor and the needy (read Isaiah 58:6, 7).

**God Is the One Who Made Us**. God made man as a copy of Himself. So, we are all one family. God loves us all the same. That is why we must be fair and kind to each other. We all have worth in God’s eyes. No one should use anyone to get rich. We should be fair to everyone. We should not be greedy. We should not take what does not belong to us. God’s people will stand for what is right in the end time. They will be changed by the end-time announcement of the Good News in Revelation 14:6, 7. The First Angel’s Message asks us to accept God’s plan to save us and make us new. God’s end-time people will keep His commandments. They will have the faith of Jesus, even when everyone on earth worships a false god and religion. 

`What are some ways we can help people in need? At the same time, in what ways can we share with people the hope and the warning found in the Three Angels’ Messages?`

*The 1st Angel’s Message asks us to accept God’s plan to save us and make us new.*