---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   06/09/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

“Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘God With Us,’ ” pages 19–26, in The Desire of Ages; “Saved to Serve,” pages 95–107, in The Ministry of Healing.

“God announces that the whole earth is His grape garden. Satan says that he is in control of God’s grape garden. But the grape garden belongs to God. God made it. God sent His Son to die for it and save it. Jesus’ death was for everyone. ‘God so [very much] loved the world [all humans] that he gave his one and only Son.’ John 3:16 [NIrV]. That one gift makes every other gift God gives us possible. Every day God gives us many blessings. Every drop of rain is a blessing from God. So is every ray of sunlight. Every leaf, flower, and fruit shows us God’s deep love for us. These gifts show us that God is very patient with us, too, even when we are not thankful for everything He gives us.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 301, 302. 

“ ‘Now, in Christ [Jesus], it doesn’t [does not] matter [not important] if you are a Jew or a Greek, a slave or free, male or female. You are all the same in Christ Jesus’ ” (Galatians 3:28 [ERV]; Ephesians 2:13).

“If someone cries for help, you should help them, even if this person is not your religion. . . .

“All around us are poor people. They are having a hard time. They need someone to be kind to them and help them. There are widows who need pity and help. There are orphans. Jesus has asked His followers to adopt these children. But too many times we do not help the poor, the widows, or the orphans. These people may look rough and not very attractive. But they belong to God. God bought them with a price. So, they are as precious in God’s eyes as we are. These poor people are members of God’s family. As Christians, we must take care of them.”—Pages 386, 387, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1.	It is easy to fall into the trap of thinking that our good works save us. What can we do to stop thinking this way?`

`2.	How does your church make everyone feel that they are all one in Jesus? What can your church do to help other people feel more included?`

*“Every leaf, flower, and fruit shows us God’s deep love for us.”*