---
title:  Jesus Beats Satan
date:   16/02/2019
---

_Jesus beat Satan at the cross. Jesus will beat Satan in the end time. So, Jesus is the only hope for God’s people._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 12:1–5; Genesis 3:14, 15; Revelation 12:7–9, 13, 14, 17; 2 Thessalonians 2:8–12.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “They had victory over him by the blood the Lamb spilled for them. They had victory over him by speaking the truth about Jesus to others [people on the earth]. They were willing to risk [take a chance with] their lives, even if it led to death” (Revelation 12:11, NIrV).

**REVELATION 12–14** help us understand the last-day events in Revelation. These three chapters show us the full history of the war between God and Satan, from before Jesus’ time on earth until His Second Coming. Revelation 1:1–11:19 show us the spiritual battles that the church must fight during Christian history, from John’s time until the end time. The rest of Revelation is about different things that happen before the Second Coming. Revelation 12 gives us the “big picture” that is going on behind everything we see during the last days of this earth’s history.

In the book of Revelation, Satan is the worst enemy of God and His people. Satan is real. He causes all evil and war on this earth, just as he did when he was in heaven. Satan knows that his last chance to win against God is to win the last war on earth before the Second Coming. That is why Satan puts all his power and time into getting ready for that last fight. Revelation 12 also shows God’s end-time church that Satan already lost the war. Jesus beat Satan at the cross. Jesus will beat Satan again in the end time. So, Jesus is the only hope for God’s people.