---
title:  The Woman And The Dragon
date:   17/02/2019
---

_A prostitute is a word pic­ ture that the Bible uses for believers who turn away from God and His truth._

`In Revelation 12:1–5, John saw in a vision two import­ ant signs or symbols. The first symbol is a woman who is about to have a baby. Who is this woman? What do the verses in Revelation 12:1–5 teach us about her?`

In the Bible, a woman is a word picture for God’s people (2 Corinthians 11:2). A woman who has not done any sex sins is a word picture for loyal believers. A prostitute is a person who sells sex for money.A prostitute is a word picture in the Bible for believers who turn away from God and His truth. The woman in Revelation 12:1–5 is a word picture for Old Testament Israel. But after Jesus’ death on the cross, the woman in Revelation 12:13–17 becomes a word picture for the Christian church.

The book of Revelation shows us the woman in clothes as bright as the sun. The moon is under her feet. The sun in the Bible can mean Jesus’ holy life and glory (Malachi 4:2; Revelation 1:16) and the glory of His people (Matthew 13:43). The moon shines with the sun’s light. In the same way, God’s promises in the Old Testament are the same as the moon. They shine with the light of the Good News to come in the New Testament.

The next thing John sees is a big red dragon. Later, John says that the dragon is the devil, or Satan (Revelation 12:9). The Bible says that the dragon used his tail to pull 1/3 of the stars from heaven to earth. The dragon’s tail is a word picture for the tricks the devil uses (Isaiah 9:14, 15; Revelation 9:10). After Satan lost his job in heaven (Isaiah 14:12–15), he turned 1/3 of the angels away from God. These angels became evil spirits (2 Peter 2:4; Jude 1:6; 1 Timothy 4:1). They chose to join Satan in his fight against God and His work to save humans.

`John tells us that the “dragon is that old snake” (Revelation 12:9, ERV). What connection is there between Genesis 3:15 and the snake who tries to destroy the woman’s child in Revelation 12:1–5?`

From the start, Satan waited for the promised Savior to be born to destroy Him. But Satan failed. Jesus won.

`How do we win against Satan in our lives? We know Jesus won. What hope does that give you while you fight against sin?`