---
title:  God Throws Satan Out Of Heaven
date:   18/02/2019
---

_Satan has only a short time before God pun­ ishes him for all his evil (Revelation 12:12)._

`Read Revelation 12:7–9. These verses talk about a war in heaven. At the end of this war, God forced Satan to leave heaven. What caused that war?`

Satan fought a war against God’s government. So, God forced Satan to leave heaven. Satan wanted to sit on God’s throne. Satan wanted to be “like [the same as] God Most High” (Isaiah 14:12–15, ERV). But God beat Satan in the war. Then God threw Satan out of heaven to earth. There, Satan tricked Adam and Eve and caused them to sin. By doing that, Satan stole from Adam and Eve their power to rule this earth (Luke 4:6). After God threw Satan out of heaven, God sent Satan and his evil angels to the earth. It is their prison. They must stay here until it is time for God to punish them (2 Peter 2:4; Jude 6).

While God’s people waited for Him to punish Satan, Jesus died for their sins. He made a way for humans to have again everything they lost because of sin. God showed the evil in Satan’s heart to everyone in heaven and on earth. “God pulled away Satan’s mask, his false face that hid his true hate for God. Then angels and people who lived on other planets saw Satan’s true government and leadership. Satan showed everyone he was a killer. He spilled the blood of God’s Son. This evil act caused the hearts of the angels in heaven to turn away from Satan forever. After that, Satan’s work was limited.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 761, adapted. In front of everyone in heaven, God took the control of this earth away from Satan and gave it to Jesus. God told everyone that Jesus was the true king over the earth (Ephesians 1:20–22; Philippians 2:9–11).

After that, God shut Satan and his angels out of heaven forever. Jesus talks about this time when He says, “ ‘Now it is time for the world to be judged. Now the prince of this world [earth] will be thrown out’ ” (John 12:31, NIrV). Until Jesus comes back, Satan’s power to hurt God’s people on earth is limited. Satan has only a short time before God punishes him for all his evil (Revelation 12:12). That is why Satan does all that he can in this short time to cause pain, suffering, and trouble on earth.

`What does Revelation 12:11 teach us about how we can protect ourselves from the devil?`