---
title:  The War On Earth
date:   19/02/2019
---

_Satan, the dragon, spits a flood of waters out of his mouth to destroy the “woman,” who is God’s church._

`After God refused to let Satan into heaven anymore, Satan continued his attack against God by attacking God’s church on earth during the 1,260 days or years (a.d. 538–1798) that the Bible talks about. What do Revelation 12:13, 14 say that God did for His church during that time?`

“God threw Satan out of heaven after Jesus gave up His life to save His people. Satan worked very hard to stop God’s plans to save humans. But God finished His plans to save us anyway. . . . Satan knows that the kingdom he stole from Adam will be taken away from him in the end. So, Satan does everything he can to destroy all the people until the end of time. Satan hates man because Jesus showed so much love and pity for man. So, Satan planned to use every trick and lie to make man lose his everlasting life. Satan puts all his power and strength in this plan because he knows he does not have any chance to win the war against God.”—Ellen G. White, The Spirit of Prophecy [special messages from God], volume 3, pages 194, 195, adapted.

Yes, Satan works hard to destroy the one thing on this earth that Jesus loves most: the church. But God protects the church in the wild land during the special 1,260 days that the Bible talks about. Satan attacks God’s church during these 1,260 days (Revelation 12:6). The 1,260 days is a word picture for 1,260 years. It is the same time in the Bible as the “three-and one-half years” (Revelation 12:14, NLV). Both the 1,260 days and the 3 ½ years show us the time in history when the little-horn power attacked God’s true church (Daniel 7:23–25). In the Bible, one day can equal a year in special messages from God about time. The time in history that best matches the 1,260 days or 3 ½ years is a.d. 538 to 1798. During that time, the Roman Catholic Church controlled most of Europe until the French Revolution ended the church’s power in 1798.

At the end of the time that the “woman” stays in the wild land, Satan starts a new attack against her. Satan, the dragon, spits a flood of waters out of his mouth to destroy the “woman,” who is God’s church. The Bible often uses a flood as a word picture to show us the evil people who want to hurt God’s people (Isaiah 59:19). But the earth, a word picture for America, swallows the waters and saves the woman from her attackers (Revelation 12:16).