---
title:  War Against God’S People 
date:   20/02/2019
---

_God gave Adventists the gift of prophecy in the work and writings of Ellen G. White._

`Revelation 12:17 talks about the group of people that Satan fights against at the end of time. Who are they?`

The word “rest” in Revelation 12:17 (NIrV) also is written as “all her other children” (ERV). It shows us the people who stay loyal to God and obey Him when no one else does (1 Kings 19:18; Revelation 2:24). At the end of time, most people on the earth will support Satan. But there will be a small group of people on the earth who will stay loyal to Jesus. The people who obey Jesus will feel Satan’s full anger.

`What two things does Revelation 12:17 show us about God’s special end­time people? How can we be sure that we belong to God’s special end­time people?`

God’s special end-time people keep all of God’s com- mandments. Revelation 13 shows us that commandments #1–4 will be very important during the war between good and evil at the end time. The commandments #1–4 are about the worship of God. The war between good and evil at the end time is about worship. Almost all the people on earth will choose to worship the wild sea animal and its false sabbath. But God’s special end-time people will worship God who made them (Revelation 14:7). The 4th commandment clearly shows us that God is the One who made us. That is one reason we believe that the 4th commandment will become very important at the end of time.

Also, God’s special end-time people will have “ ‘the truth of [about] Jesus’ ” (Revelation 19:10, ERV). The same verse explains that “ ‘the truth of [about] Jesus is the spirit of prophecy [special messages from God about what will hap- pen in the future]’ ” (ERV). The words “ ‘the truth of [about] Jesus’ ” show us that Jesus uses the gift of prophecy to witness to His people. That is the same thing that Jesus did with John (Revelation 1:2). The book of Revelation tells us that, at the end time, God’s people will have the gift of prophecy. This gift will guide them in difficult times when Satan will do everything he can to trick and destroy them. God gave Adventists the gift of prophecy in the work and writings of Ellen G. White.

`What are some of the most wonderful truths that God gave Ellen G. White to give to us?`