---
title:  Satan’S End­Time Tricks
date:   21/02/2019
---

_In Revelation 13, the drag­ on forms a team with the wild sea­animal power and the wild land­animal power. They work together to destroy God’s work and lie to people._

Revelation 12:17 shows us a change in Satan’s plan to win the loyalty of the people on the earth and attack God’s follow- ers. When we look at Christian history, we see that Satan often tried to stop God’s plan to save sinners. Satan used body force and attacks to do his work. But when he gets ready for his final attack against God’s end-time people, Satan adds tricks and lies to his attack. This change in Satan’s attack also matches what we see in the book of Revelation. When Satan’s attack starts to include tricks and lies, the chapters in Revelation stop talking about the history of God’s church and start talking about what will happen in the end time.

It is important to see that in Revelation chapters 12–20, John often uses the word “fooled” or tricked. John uses this word a lot to show us what Satan will do in the end times to get ready for the last war against God and His people: Satan will use tricks and lies to turn people away from God. The word “fooled” starts and finishes what we read about Satan’s end-time work in the book of Revelation (read Revelation 12:9, NLV; Revelation 20:7–10, NLV).

`2 Thessalonians 2:8–12; Revelation 13:13, 14; and Revelation 19:20 show us Satan’s end­time tricks. What end­time tricks and lies does Satan use to fool people?`

In Revelation 13–20, we learn how Satan tries to win peo- ple over to his side in the end times. To do that, he uses two government powers (the dragon and the wild land animal) and a religious government (the wild sea animal) to do his work. The dragon is a symbol for the Roman Kingdom and the worship of false gods. The wild sea animal is a symbol for the Roman Catholic Church (Revelation 13:1–10), and the wild land animal (Revelation 13:11–18) is a symbol for Protestant churches that have turned away from Bible truth. John shows us how the members of this team work together to destroy God’s work and lie to people. The book of Revelation shows us that Satan’s last trick on earth will be so powerful that most people will believe Satan.

`Two times the book of Revelation warns people to be wise so that they can stand up against the devil’s end­ time attacks (Revelation 13:18; Revelation 17:9). What is John trying to tell us? What does James 1:5 say we must do?`


