---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/02/2019
---

_Jesus promises always to be with His loyal fol­ lowers to the very end (Matthew 28:20)._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “Snares [traps] of Satan,” pages 518–530, in The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan].

The book of Revelation asks us to think carefully about what will happen in the future. We must depend on God. God must be number one in our lives. The book of Revelation tells us that, yes, Satan is a strong and skilled enemy. But Satan is not strong enough to beat Jesus (read Revelation 12:8). God’s people can find their hope only in Jesus. Jesus is the One who beat Satan and his team of demons and humans who were under Satan’s control. Jesus promises always to be with His loyal followers: “ ‘You can be sure that I am always with you, to the very end,’ ” (Matthew 28:20, NIrV).

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. As Seventh-day Adventists, we understand that we are God’s special end-time people in the book of Revelation. Wow! It is an honor to be part of this group! Our being part of God’s special end-time people means that we must do the work that He gave us (read Luke 12:48). Why must we be careful not to think that God will save us just because we are a part of this special group?`

`2. “We talk too much about the power of Satan. It is true that Satan is powerful. But I thank God for a mighty Savior who threw Satan out of heaven. We talk about the devil. We pray about him. We think about him. Then he becomes bigger and bigger in our minds. Why not talk about Jesus? Why not think about His power and love? Satan is happy when we believe that he is more power- ful than he really is. Think about Jesus instead of Satan. When you think about Jesus, you will become the same as He is.”—Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, March 19, 1889. In what ways do Christians act as if Satan is more powerful than he really is? At the same time, what dangers can happen if we do not believe that Satan and his power are real?`