---
title: 'A Look At History In The Time Of Zerubbabel And Nehemiah'
date: 28/09/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Jeremiah 25:11, 12; Ezra 4:1–7; Ezra 7:1–10; Ezra 7:11–28; Ezra 7:6, 10.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “From King Cyrus of Persia: The Lord, the God of heaven, gave all the kingdoms on earth to me. And he chose me to build a temple for him at Jerusalem in the country of Judah” (Ezra 1:2, ERV).

**JEREMIAH** is an Old Testament prophet. Prophets are God’s special messengers to His people. Jeremiah writes about a special promise God makes to His people. God promises His people that they will go back to their own country after being in Babylon for 70 years. God chooses King Cyrus (Isaiah 45:1) to help His people. Cyrus is the King of Persia. In 538 b.c., Cyrus makes a special law. This law makes God’s people free again. Now they can go back home to Judah. There, they will rebuild God’s temple. 

God puts it in Cyrus’s heart to help His people rebuild Jerusalem: “ ‘ “Let it be rebuilt” ’ ” (Isaiah 44:28, NIrV). God also promises that the temple’s “ ‘ “first stones will be laid again” ’ ” (Isaiah 44:28, NLV). God promises His people that these things will happen. 

We feel hope when we see that God’s people trusted God’s promises (read Ezra 1:5). Ezra 1:5 shows us a powerful example of their trust in God. We do our best work when we understand who God is and what He does for us. We must always remember what God does to help His people when they are in need. 

_We do our best work when we understand who God is and what He does for us._