---
title:  THE 1ST TRIP HOME 
date:   29/09/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Jeremiah 25:11, 12; Jeremiah 29:10; and Daniel 9:1, 2. These verses tell us about the 1st trip that God’s people make back to their home. When does that trip happen? Which Bible writer announces this trip many years before it happens?`

Jeremiah is God’s special messenger, or prophet. He writes a special message, or prophecy. This prophecy gives God’s people hope in Babylon. God promises His people that they will go back home to Judah after they live in Babylon for 70 years. Jeremiah also says that the land of Judah will be empty during those 70 years. Judah is empty from about 606/605 b.c. to 537/536 b.c. After that time, God will help His people go home. At the end of the 70 years, the prophet Daniel studies Jeremiah’s writings. Daniel sees it is time for God to keep His promise to His people. 

In Daniel 9, we see that Daniel is upset. Why? Because the 70 years are almost finished. But Daniel cannot see how God’s people can go home. The new Persian Kingdom is in power. Daniel feels there is little hope for God’s promise to come true. So, Daniel cries. Then he turns to God. Daniel asks God to forgive His people and to keep His promises. In Daniel 9:24–27, God tells Daniel that He watches over everything. God plans the future too. He will send a Savior to His people. The Savior will die for His people to make them clean from sin. God tells Daniel not to worry. God will send His people a Savior in the future. He also will send someone to help them now. A little time later, God touches Cyrus’s heart. Cyrus, King of Persia, decides to help God’s people. Cyrus, gives a command to free God’s people so that they can go home. God always keeps His promises! (For another example, read Daniel 10.)

In Ezra 1, we read King Cyrus’s command. Cyrus gives this command some time between 539 b.c. and 537 b.c. Yes, Cyrus frees God’s people. But he does more than that! He sends God’s people home with many gifts. He also gives God’s people the treasures that Nebuchadnezzar stole from God’s temple. Can you think of another time in the Bible when this happens? This happens when the Israelites leave Egypt with Moses many years before, remember? The Egyptians give God’s people many gifts when they leave Egypt. The 1st group that leaves Babylon to go back to Judah has 50,000 people. We believe women and children also are part of that group. 

_God tells Daniel that He watches over everything._