---
title:  THE PERSIAN KINGS
date:   30/09/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The 1st group of Jews goes back home. It is their job to build again God’s temple. We will study in another lesson about the people who try to stop their work on the temple. Now, we will talk about the Persian kings during this time that God’s people work on the temple and build again the city. It is important to know about the history during the time of Ezra and Nehemiah. This history will give us a deeper understanding of Ezra and Nehemiah’s messages. 

`Read Ezra 4:1–7. These verses talk about the different kings of Persia. They are kings during the time that some people try to stop the Jews from rebuilding God’s temple. What are the names of these Persian kings?`

Here is a list of the Persian kings during the time of Ezra and Nehemiah. This list also shows the dates when these men were kings. The list starts with King Cyrus. He starts the Persian Kingdom and ends the Kingdom of Babylon, in 539 b.c.: 

Persian Kings during Ezra and Nehemiah’s time:

- Cyrus the 2nd, also named “the Great” (539–530) b.c.
- Cambyses the 2nd (530–522 b.c.)
- Darius the 1st (522–486 b.c.)
- Xerxes the 1st (485–465 b.c.) (Xerxes is the husband 	of Queen Esther)
- Artaxerxes the 1st (465–424 b.c.)
  
As we study the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, it is important to be aware of something. In Ezra 4, Artaxerxes the 1st is king. In Ezra 5 and Ezra 6, Darius the 1st is king. But if you check the list of kings above, what do you see? You see that Darius is king before Artaxerxes. That means that the stories in Ezra 4:6–24 happen after the stories in Ezra 5 and Ezra 6, even if Ezra 4 comes first. If you remember this, it will help you not to get confused when you read about the Persian kings. Then you will understand the messages of Ezra and Nehemiah better.

`Have you often been confused by things you read in the Bible? Why should you trust God and the Bible, even when you do not always understand everything you read? (Read Isaiah 55:8, 9.)`

_Remember, the stories in Ezra 4:6–24 happen after the stories in Ezra 5 and Ezra 6._