---
title: 'The 2 Nd Trip Home'
date: 01/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

In Ezra 7:1–10 and Ezra 8:1–14, we see that King Artaxerxes the 1st allows Ezra to return to Jerusalem. That happens in the year 457 b.c. Ezra can take with him anyone who wants to go to Jerusalem. We do not know much about Ezra’s friendship with the king. We do not know if Ezra worked at the court. Ezra 8 tells us the names of the leaders of the families who go with Ezra to Jerusalem. The list gives the names of the priests, or holy leaders. Then it tells us the names of the royal family. The list ends with the names of the leaders of the people. Twelve families are named. This number helps us remember the 12 tribes of Israel.

The list in Ezra 8 has about 1,500 men. If you add women and children, the number of people comes to about 5,000 to 6,000. This group is much smaller than the 1st group that goes back with Zerubbabel and Joshua. 

`Read Ezra 7:1–10. What do these verses teach us about Ezra?`

Ezra is a scribe. A scribe is someone who studied and copied the law and the Bible for other people. Ezra also comes from a family of priests, or holy leaders. Ezra comes from the family of Aaron. Aaron was the brother of Moses. Aaron also was the 1st priest of Israel. Does Ezra work as a scribe for King Artaxerxes? We do not know. But we believe Ezra works closely with King Artaxerxes. Why? Because the king chooses Ezra to lead the group of Jews back to Jerusalem. 

In Ezra 7:6, ERV, we read that Ezra “knew the Law of Moses very well.” Ezra is a very good teacher. He gives his whole life to studying the law (Ezra 7:10). The word written as “knew” comes from a Hebrew word that means “fast.” What does that tell us? It shows us that Ezra is very smart. He learns things fast. He is known for his knowledge and wisdom about God’s law. No wonder the king chooses Ezra to be a leader! The king’s choice also shows us something else about Ezra. It shows us that Ezra has courage. He also is a good leader. 

`Do you see that Ezra “prepared [got ready] his heart to seek [understand] the law of the Lord, and to do it” (Ezra 7:10, KJV)? How do we follow this important rule in our own lives today?`

_Ezra studied the law his whole life._