---
title: 'King Artaxerxes S Command'
date: 02/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`King Artaxerxes writes a special command in Ezra 7:11–28. What does the king tell God’s people to do? Why are the king’s orders important for God’s people?`

King Artaxerxes’s special command looks the same as King Cyrus’s 1st command. King Artaxerxes tells the Jews that they can all go home. The king also encourages the priests, or holy leaders, to go back to Jerusalem. How many Jews go back to their country? We can learn the answer from the Murashu records. The Murashu are special records of history. They show us that most of the Jews stay in Persia. (We see this is true from the story of Queen Esther.) 

But there are some Jews who want to start a new life in Jerusalem. So, King Artaxerxes writes to his treasurers in the Trans-Euphrates area of his kingdom. The king tells his treasurers to give Ezra anything he needs to rebuild Jerusalem. God puts the idea “in the king’s heart to make the house of the Lord in Jerusalem beautiful” (Ezra 7:27, NLV). God’s people need courts of law too. Good laws make a country safe for people to live in. In His law, God gives His people a special plan for the courts and judges in their land. The king tells Ezra to follow carefully everything that God’s law says to do. The king helps make it easy for Ezra and the Jews to rebuild their country. 

We see that King Artaxerxes wanted the Jews to build again Jerusalem and God’s temple. Does that mean that the king becomes a believer in God? The king says that God is the “God of Israel, who lives in Jerusalem” (Ezra 7:15, ERV). What does that information tell us? It shows us that the king sees the Lord as just another local god. The king does not want this “local god” to be angry with him and his sons (Ezra 7:23). Also, there may be another reason why the king is so nice to the Jews. During this time, the King of Persia controls Egypt. But in 457 b.c., the Egyptians fight against the Persian government. So, it is possible that the Persian king wants the Jews to be loyal to him. That may be why he helps the Jews rebuild their city and God’s temple. But nothing in the Bible proves that the king becomes a believer in God. Even so, King Artaxerxes is an example of God’s power. He shows us that God can use people who do not believe in Him to do His work on this earth. 

_King Artaxerxes helps Ezra. The king is an example of God’s power. The king shows us that God can use people who do not believe in Him to do His work on this earth._