---
title: 'Ezra's Education'
date: 03/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Ezra 7:6, 10. What do these verses in Ezra teach us about why religious education is important?`

Ezra gives his life to God. He serves God with his whole heart. Ezra decides to study and teach God’s truth (Ezra 7:6, 10). Ezra lives this truth too. The Bible shows us that Ezra gives himself fully to studying, doing, and teaching God’s law. His decision gets him ready for the important work that God gives him in Israel.

Ellen G. White writes, “Ezra comes from the family of Aaron. Ezra is trained as a priest, or holy leader. Also, Ezra learns about the teachings of the magicians. He also learns about the teachings of men who study the stars to learn about the future. Ezra learns about the writings of the wise men of the Medo-Persian kingdom too. But Ezra is not happy with his spiritual life. He wants to be fully at peace with God. He wants wisdom to follow God’s plan too. So he ‘prepared [got ready] his heart to seek [understand] the law of the Lord, and to do it.’ Ezra 7:10 [KJV]. He studies the history of God’s people. He also studies the writings of God’s special messengers, or prophets. He studies the writings of the kings too. He searches the poems and the books of history in the Bible. He wants to learn why the Lord allowed Jerusalem to be destroyed. Ezra wants to learn the answer to the question: Why were God’s people taken away from their own land and made slaves?”—Prophets and Kings, page 608, adapted.

“Ezra wants his people to study the Bible too. So, he makes many copies of the Bible. He also collects all the copies of the law he can find. Then he makes more copies of these copies and shares them everywhere. Because of Ezra, many people learn about Bible truth.”—Page 609.

Yes, Ezra learns about the ways of the wise men in Persia who do not believe in God. But do you see that Ezra understands that their teachings are false? He wants to know truth. He looks for it in the law of God. No doubt, Ezra must “throw out” much of what he learns from the wise men and the magicians. Much of what they teach is wrong. Ezra learns that all knowledge and wisdom comes from God.

`What have we learned from the wise men of today that we may need to “throw out”?`

_Ezra wants to know truth. He looks for it in the law of God._
