---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   04/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “Ezra, the Priest and Scribe,” pages 607–617, in Prophets and Kings.

Look at Ezra’s work: “Ezra becomes God’s voice, or messenger. He teaches people around him about the rules that govern heaven. During the later years of his life, Ezra works near the court of the king of Media-Persia and also at Jerusalem. In both places, Ezra works as a teacher. That is the most important work he does. Ezra shares with other people the truths he learns. As he shares God’s truth, God gives Ezra more power to do his work. Ezra becomes a very holy man. His heart is full of a deep love for God. Ezra is God’s witness to people on this earth. He shows them the power of Bible truth. He also shows them how Bible truth can make their lives better.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 609, adapted.

“God wants us to change lives for the better. He needs people to do this work who are the same as Ezra and Nehemiah. These men do not excuse sin. They honor God’s name. God needs workers who will stand up against wrong and will not cover up evil. They will remember that God loves all people the same. He does not like one person more than another person. God’s workers also will remember that they must have the spirit of Christ in their hearts. Then they will be able to show other people their sins and correct them when they are wrong.”—Page 675, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. God gives us many wonderful promises. At the same time, God does not force us to accept His love and forgiveness. What choices are we making now that keep God’s promises from coming true in our lives?`

`2. Read Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:1–23. What rules do you see there that can help you in your own personal experience with God? What does Daniel ask God for? What is in Daniel’s heart?`

`3. In Thursday’s study, we learned from Ellen G. White that Bible truth is very important to Israel’s work for God. We also learned that Ezra works very hard to teach God’s truth to the people. What does Ezra’s story teach us about how important the Bible is to our church and our lives today?`

_God’s workers must have the spirit of Jesus in their hearts. “Then they may show other people their sins and correct them when they are wrong.”_