---
title:  Serving God 
date:  11/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Philippians 2:5–9. What important message is there for us in these verses?`

Today, we are told to stand up for ourselves and make sure that we get our rights or the special things that belong to us by law as citizens. This advice is good and is often right. But sometimes God may ask us to give up some things so that we may serve Him better. Our giving up these things may not be easy and may cause us to suffer.

Look at how Jesus gave up things to do what God asked Him to do (Philippians 2:5–8). These verses show us three things that Jesus did to obey God’s plan for Him. Before Paul tells us what these three things are, he says: “Think the same way that Christ Jesus thought” (Philippians 2:5, CEV).

What three things did Jesus do to save us? First, “Jesus has always been as God is. But He did not hold to His rights [the special things that belong to Jesus] as God. He put aside everything that belonged to Him and made Himself the same as a servant who is owned by someone” (Philippians 2:6, 7, NLV).

Second, Jesus did not come to earth as a powerful person. “He became human by being born as a man” (Philippians 2:7, NLV).

Third, as a human Servant, Jesus did not live a long life of peace on this earth. No, “after He [Jesus] became a man, He gave up His important place and obeyed by dying on a cross” (Philippians 2:8, NLV).

`What part of Jesus’ behavior do we want to copy in our own lives? We all agree that as citizens we have rights. These rights are rights or special things that belong to us by law. We must protect these rights. Do you think that God may ask us to give up our rights to serve Him better? Explain. Now read Philippians 2:9. How does this verse help us understand why we need to give everything to God?`