---
title:  First, We Must “die” 
date:  12/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Many people wish to know God’s plan for their lives. They say, “If only I knew God’s plan! When I do, I will give up everything for Him.” But we may continue to be confused about God’s plan after we make this promise. Romans 12:1, 2 explains why. In these verses, Paul talks about how we can know God’s plan. Paul says that if you want to know God’s plan, you must give Him everything first!

Read Romans 12:1, 2. In these verses, Paul says, “You will know what God wants you to do” (Romans 12:2, NLV) when you do these things:

1. You understand “God’s mercy” for you (Romans 12:1, NIV).

2. You give yourself the same as a living offering to God (Romans 12:1).

3. Your thinking changes completely (Romans 12:2).

When your thinking changes completely, then you can understand God’s plan for your life. But first you must die to your past. In the same way, Jesus suffered and died for us. We must die to our pasts, too.

`Ask the Holy Spirit to show you the parts of yourself that are not completely “dead.” What things do you need to give up so that the Holy Spirit can help you become a “living offering” for God?`

When self is not completely dead, God allows difficult experiences, tests, and suffering to show us our sin. Suffering also helps us understand why Jesus gave Himself for us. Elisabeth Elliot writes, “When we give to God the things we want the most, we start to understand the cross. . . . Our own experience of dying to self is much less painful or powerful than our Savior’s death. But our suffering gives us the chance to know Jesus. Our suffering is an invitation from Jesus. Jesus invites us to fellowship with Him.”—Quest for Love (Grand Rapids, MI: Fleming H. Revell, 1996), page 182, adapted.

`Read and pray over Romans 12:1, 2. Think about the things you need to give up. You want to be a living offering to God. How does Romans 12:1, 2 help you to understand better what Jesus suffered for you on the cross? How can thinking about Jesus’ sufferings help you fellowship with Jesus?`