---
title:  Paying Attention To God 
date:  13/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The Lordord came and stood there. He called as he did before, saying, ‘Samuel, Samuel!’ Samuel said, ‘Speak. I am your servant, and I am listening [paying attention]’ ” (1 Samuel 3:10, ERV).

Did the Holy Spirit ever talk to you, but you ignored Him? What happened next? Everything went wrong, didn’t it? Maybe you thought to yourself later, “Oh no! Why didn’t I pay attention?”

1 Samuel tells the story about an old man, his two evil sons, and a little boy. The old man’s sons do not pay attention to the Lord. But the little boy does. God gives the two sons strong warnings to stop doing evil. But the two sons do not change.

`Read the story about the two sons in 1 Samuel 2:12–1 Samuel 3:18. Compare the ones in this story who pay attention to God with the ones who don’t. How are they different?`

Eli’s sons don’t care about God or about serving Him. They have their own plans. When Eli learns what God wants, he talks to his sons. But then Eli doesn’t do anything else to punish them. His sons are not ready to give their lives fully to God and to His plan for their lives. Young Samuel is completely different from these bad men.

Preacher Charles Stanley explains that it is important to pay attention to what God says. Stanley says: “The Holy Spirit . . . does not only share information with us. The Holy Spirit also talks to us to get us to answer. The Holy Spirit knows when all our attention is on our own plans. When we care only about what we want, we will not pay attention to anything God says. At these times, the Holy Spirit often says nothing. He waits for us to hear Him. Then we will be ready to obey.”—The Wonderful Spirit-Filled Life (Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson Publishers, 1992), pages 179, 180, adapted.

`How willing are you to hear and obey God? What things keep you from obeying Him? What do you need to do in your life to help you to be more willing to obey Him?`