---
title:  Trusting Self More Than God 
date:  14/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When Eve sinned in the Garden of Eden, she doubted God. But there was more to her sin than doubt. Eve believed that she was smart enough to decide for herself what was good. She trusted her own wisdom. When we trust our own wisdom more than God’s, we cause or start many problems.

The story about King Saul shows us the mistakes Saul made when he trusted himself. We can see the disaster that so often happens when we trust self. Samuel put oil on Saul to show that God chose Saul to be king (1 Samuel 10:1). Then Samuel gave Saul some important rules and advice to follow (1 Samuel 10:8). But Saul didn’t obey.

`Read the next part of the story in 1 Samuel 13:1–14. What does Saul do that leads to his bad end?`

Saul did three things that caused him to depend on himself soon after he became king. The problem is that none of these three things is bad by itself. But each of these things shows us that Saul acted on his own without God’s help or permission. Let’s look at what happened.

1. Saul says, “ ‘I saw’ ” (1 Samuel 13:11, NLV). Saul sees his army run away. Saul also sees that Samuel will not be there to help him (1 Samuel 13:11). Saul feels a lot of pressure to do something. So, he judges what is happening with his own eyes without waiting for God.
2. Next, Saul says, “ ‘I said’ ” (1 Samuel 13:12, NLV). Saul announces that the Philistines will beat Israel’s army. What Saul sees with his own eyes causes him to have the wrong idea about what is happening.
3. Finally, Saul says, “ ‘I felt.’ ” Saul feels that it was right to kill animals and offer them to God (1 Samuel 13:12, NIrV). Here we see that Saul’s thoughts cause his feelings to change for the worse.

All of us have had the same experience as Saul. We depend on what we see. That leads us to depend on our own human thinking. And that leads us to depend on our own human feelings. Then we act on those feelings.

`Why do you think it was so easy for Saul to follow his own ideas right after God told him what to do? If we know we are weak humans, why do we trust in ourselves? What can we do to learn to trust the Lord’s commands more than our own ideas and feelings?`