---
title:  Substitutes 
date:  15/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We must not depend on our own wisdom and strength. We must depend on God’s. We also must not depend on things that make us feel good. When some people get very sad, they go shopping for something to make them happy. When some people don’t feel they are worth much, they work hard to be famous. When other people have trouble in their marriage, they look for someone else to give them love. When we do that, we are trying to feel better without God.

We can use many things to help us feel less stress and to feel better about ourselves. But these things often do not solve our problems. These things do not teach us how to do better the next time the stress comes. The problem is that we often do not depend on God Himself.

People often replace God with three substitutes:

1. Human thinking or past experience. We may depend on human thinking or experience when we need God’s wisdom.
2. Paying no attention. We may choose to pay no attention to our problems and not think about them at all. What we really need to do is ask God for His help to solve our problems.
3. Avoiding God. We may choose to run away from our problems and to avoid God. What we need to do is communicate with God and ask Him for His strength.

Zechariah helps us to understand what to do when Satan tries to get us to replace God with one of these substitutes. After many years away from home, the Jews left Babylon and started to build the temple in their own land. But people tried to stop the Jews from building the temple (read Ezra 4–6). So, Zechariah came with a message of encouragement to Zerubbabel, the leader of the work.

`Read Zechariah’s message in Zechariah 4. What does God mean in Zechariah 4:6? What does the Holy Spirit have to do with rebuilding the temple? What does this answer teach us about the connection between the Holy Spirit and the everyday things we do in life?`

God does not stop the troubles that His people have as they rebuild the temple. God does not remove the stress from Zerubbabel. God will not always keep us from suffering. But when suffering and troubles come, God may use them as tests to teach us to depend on Him.