---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Eli and His Sons,” pages 575–580, and “The Presumption of Saul,” pages 616–626, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Eli failed to do his duty as a father. He failed to punish his children for their sins. Every father and mother in the land can see Eli’s mistakes as a parent. Eli spoiled his sons and refused to punish them. So, Eli’s sons became very evil. Both Eli and his sons were guilty in God’s eyes. Eli was guilty because he did not punish his sons for their evil behavior. His sons were guilty because they sinned and were not sorry for the evil they did. So, God refused to accept any offerings or killed animals they offered Him for their sins.”—Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, page 276, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Talk in class about what Jesus gave up in heaven to come to earth. What does Jesus on the cross teach us about what we need to give up? How does giving up things save other people? In what ways can we copy the love that Jesus showed us on the cross? How can we show this love to other people?`

`Many people are afraid about what will happen if they give their lives fully to God. What advice can you give to someone who depends on himself or herself and not on God? What can you say to help remove the fears of someone who is afraid because he or she can’t know or control the future?`

`As a class, pray for people you know who have a hard time trusting God. Pray that they will see that trusting God gives us peace. How can God use you to help other people know His love? How can you show them that God is willing to take care of all their needs?`