---
title:  “Come To Me  . . .”
date:  24/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 11:20–30; 1 Peter 3:4; Isaiah 57:15; Galatians 5:1; Exodus 18:13–22.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘All you who work hard! All you who carry heavy loads! Come to me! I will give you rest’ ” (Matthew 11:28, WE).

MATTHEW 11:28 is a wonderful promise from Jesus. We all have felt tired, right? We all carry heavy loads. Work itself can be a heavy load. Life can be, too. Jesus tells us that He knows how tired we are feeling. He can help us find rest if we let Him.

Jesus asks us to carry His load. Then He says, “ ‘Serving me is easy, and my load is light’ ” (Matthew 11:30, NIrV). What does Jesus mean? He invites us to stop carrying our loads by ourselves. He asks us to give our loads to Him. He tells us to accept His loads and carry them. They are a lot easier to carry.

Jesus makes this promise to us right now. But we live on an earth that is filled with sin. So, how is this promise of rest even possible? After Adam and Eve sinned, God said to them, “ ‘You will work hard for your food, until your face is covered with sweat’ ” (Genesis 3:19, ERV). God meant our work to be hard for our own good. So, we all know how it feels to work hard and carry heavy loads. Sometimes these loads feel too big for us to carry alone. How, then, can we learn to have the rest that Jesus talks about?