---
title:  “ ‘i Will Give You Rest’ ” 
date:  25/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Matthew 11:20–28. In these verses, Jesus says: “ ‘All you who work hard! All you who carry heavy loads! Come to me! I will give you rest’ ” (Matthew 11:28, WE). Why does Jesus say this? How does Jesus give us this rest?`

Jesus never said anything without a good reason. If we want to understand the words of Jesus in Matthew 11:28, we must look at the verses written just before this verse. This will help us not to misunderstand Jesus.

Matthew shows us a change in chapter 11 in his story about Jesus. Jesus says some very tough words about the cities in Galilee. Jesus does not approve of the behavior of the people living there. Do you see that Jesus does not tell people what they want to hear so they will like Him? Jesus tells people what they need to hear most. But this does not make Jesus very popular. On top of that, Jesus is friends with the “wrong” people (Matthew 9:9–13). Worse, Jesus says that He can forgive sins. The religious leaders feel this is a disgraceful thing to say (Matthew 9:1–8). Just who does this Jesus think He is?!

Jesus says some strong words to the people. He compares the people to Sodom. This is not praise. Sodom was a very evil city. Jesus warns, “ ‘But I tell you on the day when people are judged you will be punished harder than the people from Sodom’ ” (Matthew 11:24, WE).

People start to get upset and angry with Jesus. But then all the sudden, Jesus changes topics. He offers real rest to the people. Jesus can offer this rest because “ ‘My Father has given me everything. No one knows the Son—only the Father knows the Son. And no one knows the Father—only the Son knows the Father. And the only people who will know about the Father are those the Son chooses to tell’ ” (Matthew 11:27, ERV). Jesus can give rest to His followers because He is God. The Father and Jesus are One.

What is the first thing we must do before we can put down our heavy loads? We must first understand that we cannot carry our loads alone.

In Matthew 11:28 (WE), Jesus starts His invitation with the word “ ‘Come.’ ” In the Greek language, this word is a command. We must obey this command if we want to find rest. “ ‘Come’ ” also shows that we need to let Jesus take full control of our lives. So, we must give our lives fully to Him.