---
title:  “‘accept My Teaching. Learn From Me’” 
date:  26/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`As we saw, Jesus invites us to give Him our heavy loads in Matthew 11:28. Then we will find real rest. In Matthew 11:29, 30, Jesus commands us to accept His teaching and to learn from Him. Why does Jesus give us this command right after He finishes giving us an invitation to rest?`

In Matthew 11:28 (WE), Jesus tells us to “ ‘Come’ ” to Him. As we saw yesterday, this verb “come” is a command. Then Jesus gives us two more commands in Matthew 11:29: (1) “ ‘accept” and (2) “ ‘learn’ ” (Matthew 11:29, ERV). These two verbs help us, the readers, to turn our attention to Jesus. What does Jesus want us to do? Jesus commands us to accept His teaching and to learn from Him.

The first command “accept” shows us something important about Jesus the Son and God the Father. We already learned that the Father and Jesus are One in heart and mind. Matthew 11:25–27 shows us that the Father and Jesus are closely connected. Both the Father and the Son work closely together to save humans. Our job is to give our lives fully to Them both. God also gives us another job. He wants us to be a blessing to the people around us. When we accept the work that God gives us to do, we show that our lives are surrendered fully to God. God does not ask us to be in charge of this work. He is. That is why His teaching is so easy to accept. And the work, or load, He asks us to do or carry is not hard (Matthew 11:30).

The second command “ ‘learn from me’ ” shows us more about the work Jesus expects His followers to do. In the Greek language, the verb “learn” is connected to the word “follower.” When we learn from Jesus, we are His followers. We obey Jesus and are loyal to His teachings.

In some Bibles, the words “ ‘accept my teaching” are written as “ ‘pick up my yoke’” (Matthew 11:29, NTE). A yoke is a long piece of wood. The wood is fastened across the necks of two animals so they can pull heavy loads together. Jesus uses the word “yoke” as a word picture. In the time of Jesus, the yoke was also a word picture for the law. So, when we accept the teachings of Jesus, we are the same as oxen who wear a yoke. Jesus asks us, “ ‘pick up my yoke and put it on.’ ” What Jesus is really asking us to do is to obey His teachings (Matthew 11:29, NTE).

`How can we have the rest Jesus offers us?`