---
title:  “‘i Am Gentle And Do Not Have Pride’” 
date:  27/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does it mean to be gentle and have a heart empty of pride? Read Matthew 5:5; 1 Peter 3:4; and Isaiah 57:15 for the answer.`

In 2 Corinthians 10:1 (NLV), Paul talks about Jesus “Christ Who is so gentle and kind.’ ” Does being gentle and kind show that Jesus was weak? No! Jesus did not try to start fights or argue with anyone. He often avoided fights because He did not want anything to get in the way of His work for God (John 4:1–3). Sometimes people wanted to argue and fight with Jesus anyway. Then Jesus was brave. He answered people with courage. At the same time, Jesus was also kind. Remember when Jesus cried about Jerusalem just before He went to the cross to die (Luke 19:41–44)? Jesus did not shout curses at anyone at that time. Jesus told the people about awful things they will suffer in the future. But Jesus said these words with tears in His voice.

New Testament writers often show Jesus as the second Moses. Jesus talks from a mountain the same as Moses did. And just as Moses did, Jesus tells the people the important rules of His kingdom (Matthew 5:1). Jesus does a miracle the same as happened with Moses in the desert. Jesus feeds large crowds of people with food (Matthew 14:13–21). Numbers 12:3 says, “Now Moses was a man with no pride” (NLV). Jesus says the same thing about Himself in Matthew 11:29. When Jesus feeds 5,000 people, people are surprised and excited by His miracle. They say, “ ‘This is the One Who speaks for God Who is to come into the world [for all people]’ ” John 6:14, NLV. The words of the people help us remember what Moses wrote in Deuteronomy 18:15 and his own work as a special messenger from God.

Who is more gentle? Jesus or Moses? Whose heart has less pride? The heart of Jesus or Moses? Jesus, of course. Jesus is our Savior who came down from heaven. Yes, Moses offered to give himself to save his people (Exodus 32:32). But the death of Moses will not do his people any good. Moses himself is a sinner. He also needs a Savior. He needs someone to pay for his sins. We can learn from Moses and the story about his life. But Moses cannot save us.

We need a Savior who can stand in our place. We need a Substitute who can take our place on the cross. Only God can save us. He is the only One who can hang on the cross for us and pay for our sin.