---
title:  “ ‘serving Me Is Easy’ ” 
date:  28/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus asks us to “accept His teachings.” As we saw from our study on Tuesday, some Bibles write “ ‘accept my teaching” as “ ‘pick up my yoke and put it on’” (Matthew 11:29, NTE). You will remember that a yoke is a long piece of wood. The wood is fastened across the necks of two animals so they can pull heavy loads together. We learned that Jesus uses the word “yoke” as a word picture. In the time of Jesus, the yoke was a word picture for the law. In Matthew 11:29, Jesus uses the word “yoke” as a word picture to show that the Jews in His day have a wrong understanding about the law. They think they can be saved by obeying the law. So, they try very hard to be perfect. This is why the law is a heavy yoke or hard load for them to carry.

`The Greek word written as “ ‘easy’ ” in Matthew 11:30, ERV, also can be written as “good; pleasant; useful; and helpful.” Many people around us think that the law of God is too hard to keep. So, they think the law does not mean anything for our lives today. How can we help them discover that the law is really beautiful? How can we help them to love the Lawgiver?`

Our walk with Jesus may not always be easy. But walking with Jesus is always good. Our walking with Jesus is always the right thing to do. We may trip and fall at times. But Jesus can help us get back up again. We can continue to walk with Jesus at our side.

`In Galatians 5:1, ICB, Paul writes: “We have freedom now because Christ [Jesus] made us free. So stand strong. Do not change and go back into the slavery of the law.” What does the part about not going back into “the slavery of the law” mean? Also, how has Jesus made us free? Jesus asks us to “ ‘pick up my yoke and put it on’” (Matthew 11:29, NTE). How is this yoke different from the yoke or “the slavery of the law” that Paul warns us about?`

We can be sure that whatever Paul means when he says “the slavery of the law” he is not talking about our obedience to the Ten Commandments. Of course not! We can have real rest and freedom only when we obey the law of God. Our obedience is possible only because of our faith.