---
title:  “ ‘my Load Is Not Heavy’ ”
date:  29/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Matthew 11:30, Jesus uses a word picture: “‘My load is not heavy’ ”(Matthew 11:30, NLV). Jesus wants us to see that serving Him and accepting His teachings are easy. They are easy compared to saving ourselves by our good behavior.

`Earlier in the week, we compared Jesus to Moses. Let us go back to the example of Moses. This time, we will look at Exodus 18:13–22. Jethro comes to visit Moses after Israel leaves Egypt and crosses the Red Sea. How does Jethro help Moses carry the heavy load of leadership?`

Exodus 18:13 says that people come to Moses for advice. All day long, the people bring Moses problems to judge. Jethro sees that this hard work will soon wear out Moses. So, Jethro asks Moses to choose skilled helpers. These men can take care of the easy problems. Moses can solve the more difficult ones. Moses listens to his father-in-law. Jethro helps Moses make changes that save his life.

We need to learn the same lesson Moses did. We need to let people share our work and our heavy loads. That is why Jesus tells us His load is not heavy. He wants us to remember that He is the best Person to carry all our troubles. Paul helps us see the same Bible truth. In 1 Corinthians 12:12–26, Paul writes about the “body of Jesus.” This word picture shows us what it means to help each other carry our troubles and heavy loads. A body must be healthy to carry any weight. We need strong and healthy legs, arms, shoulders, and muscles to carry anything.

`Read Galatians 6:2. This verse tells us to help each other carry troubles and heavy loads. How does our doing this work show the real meaning of keeping the law of God?`

Galatians 6:1 helps us understand verse 2 better. In Galatians 6:1, Paul tells us how to help Christians who sin. We must help carry their heavy loads and troubles. Then we will help sinners turn back to God. The Greek word for “load” means a heavy weight or stone. What does this word show us? It shows us we all carry heavy loads. We all need people to help us carry them. So, we must share our loads. God commands us to do this work. But we can do this work only if our hearts are gentle. Then when we help others carry their loads, we will become more loving.