---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Do you say your work is hard? Do you complain that life is difficult and filled with hard times? Do you feel you have no strength to stand against sin? Do you think you cannot be patient? Do you say that the Christian life is too hard? Then you can be sure that you do not serve Jesus or accept His teachings. You are serving Satan.”—Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, page 267, adapted.

“We can do nothing to earn the favor of God. Nothing at all. We must not trust in ourselves or our good behavior to save us. We want to do what is wrong. That is natural because we are sinners. So, we must come to Jesus. Then we will find rest in His love. God will accept every person who comes to Him and trusts in the good works of our Savior. Then love will fill our hearts. We may not feel any wild excitement when God accepts us. But we will feel peace and trust. Then every load and trouble we have will stop feeling too heavy for us to carry. That is because our serving Jesus is easy. When we serve Jesus, our work will make us happy. Anything we must give up for God will fill us with joy. The road that we walked before may have looked dark. But now Jesus shines His light before us. The dark road becomes bright. Then we will walk in the light. Jesus Himself is in the light.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, pages 38, 39, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Do you remember the time in your walk with Jesus when you finally gave yourself fully to Him? Share this experience with your class. Talk about the reason why you gave yourself fully to Him.`

`Jesus prays in Matthew 11:25–27. Study this prayer. Talk in class about how God teaches us about mercy and forgiveness. Also, why does God hide His saving plan (“these things” [verse 25, ICB)) from people who have a lot of spiritual knowledge? Why does God show His saving plan to people who are the same as babies in their spiritual walk with God?`

`How can we help the people around us who are trying hard to carry their troubles and heavy loads? How can we help these people come to Jesus to find rest?`

`Think more about the words of Jesus: “‘I am gentle and do not have pride’” (Matthew 11:29, NLV). Does this mean we should not feel good about ourselves? How does the Cross help us understand what Jesus really means in this verse? As we stand at the foot of the cross, why is a gentle spirit and a heart empty of all pride the only feeling we should have?`