---
title: 'A Friend During Hard Times'
date: 07/05/2023
---

After Jesus went to heaven, He later came back to earth to visit John. John was the last of Jesus’ Twelve Followers who was alive. John lived on Patmos Island. Patmos Island was an island where Roman leaders sent criminals. The evil Roman king Domitian sent John to the island because John preached about Jesus.

`Read Revelation 1:9. Also read Matthew 13:21; Acts 14:22; and John 16:33. What’s the message in these verses for all of us who wish to follow Jesus in this life?`

John was separated from the support of his family, friends, and the Christian community. But John was not left all alone in his suffering. John’s work for God was not finished. A Visitor from heaven came to John on that lonely island. The Visitor was shining and bright. He brought John a message from God on His throne in heaven. Jesus was the Messenger. The message He brought to John was a message of hope for Christians in John’s day and for all Christians to the end times. The message is the book of Revelation. This book helps people get ready for Jesus’ coming. This message is a warning, too. God gave it to us to encourage us as we get ready to meet the tests and troubles ahead.

If you visit Patmos Island, you can go to the cave where many people believe Jesus met John. You will see a sign at the entrance to the cave. A Bible verse is written on the sign. The verse says: “ ‘Fear [respect] God and give him praise. The time has come for God to judge all people. Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [places where the water comes out of the earth]’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). This verse shows us what the whole book of Revelation is all about.

The book of Revelation is about worship. God made us. He filled us with the need to worship Him. Every one of us does worship someone or something. When we worship God, we discover why we are here. When we worship God, we will have something worth dying for. More than that, we also will have a reason to live. If need be, our worship of God will help us stay strong during hard times. Then we will understand better the words that “ ‘we must suffer many things to enter God’s kingdom’ ” (Acts 14:22, ICB).

`Should we expect to suffer for our faith? Explain.`