---
title: 'Worship The One Who Made You'
date: 08/05/2023
---

Read the First Angel’s Message, in Revelation 14:7. How does this message end? This message tells us that the time has come for God to judge all people. What does the First Angel’s Message ask us to do at this time? (Also read Isaiah 40:26; John 1:1–3; and Romans 1:20.)

Revelation 14:7 ends with the command from the first angel to us to worship God. Why? Because God made us. This command is very important for us today. That’s because most scientists accept evolution. Evolution is a false teaching that says that life on earth started because of slow changes in plants and animals that happened over a very long time. If evolution is true, then our faith is a lie.

Revelation’s command to worship God takes us back to Genesis, the Bible’s first book. We must understand who made us and how we got here before we can understand the war between God and Satan. Then we will understand that the war between God and Satan really is about who we will worship. “In the beginning God created [made] the sky and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, ICB). This verse helps us understand the rest of the Bible. The word written as “created [made]” is “bará” in the Hebrew language. “Bará” is a verb that only is used to talk about God and what He does.

How powerful is God? Let’s think about the sun. The sun makes more energy in one second than all the energy we made from oil, gas, coal, or fire since the beginning of time.

The sun is very big. You need to travel 865,000 miles to go around the sun only one time. The sun is as big as one million planets the size of our earth! But the sun is just one star in our part of space named the Milky Way Galaxy. The Milky Way has at least 100 billion stars in it! One star in the Milky Way is named the Pistol Star. The Pistol Star gives off as much as 10 million times the energy that comes from our sun. One million stars the size of our sun can fit into the Pistol Star. So, how can anyone even begin to understand God and what He can do?

Nature shows us that God is mighty. His strength is not limited by anything. God made the skies and the earth. God also continues to keep us alive ever since life on earth started. Yes, God started life on this earth. So, we can be sure He will never fail His people while they live.