---
title: 'A God Who Is Near To Us'
date: 09/05/2023
---

God made the sun, moon, and stars. He made this earth, too, and filled it with living things. This same God is interested in each one of us. God freed His people from slavery in Egypt. God led His people in the desert. God gave them bread from the sky. He caused the walls of Jericho to fall down. God beat Israel’s enemies in war. This same God who made everything also will beat Satan and his evil angels in the war for our minds.

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:17; Psalm 139:15–18; Acts 17:27; and Colossians 1:17. What do these verses teach us about how close God wants to be to us in our hearts?`

God is above everything He made. At the same time, God is part of our lives on this earth, as history shows us. God says, “ ‘I live in a high and holy place, but I also live with people who are humble [without pride] and sorry for their sins’ ” (Isaiah 57:15, ERV). Jesus also said about His followers: “ ‘I will be in them and you [the Father] will be in me. So they will be completely one. Then the world [people on the earth] will know that you sent me. And the world will know that you loved these people the same as you loved me’ ” (John 17:23, ICB). These verses show us how close Jesus wants to be to us in our hearts.

God is so powerful that He made all the stars and can make us new. He can change our hearts to be the same as His heart. Think about what this thought really means. God made all the stars in outer space and all the planets. “ ‘It is in [because of] Him that we live and move and keep on living’ ” (Acts 17:28, NLV). This same God also works in our hearts. He gives us new thoughts and feelings. He removes the sin from our lives and makes us clean. God makes us brand-new people in Jesus. Wow! This thought is wonderful. A powerful God loves and cares for us.

`How can the idea that God is near us give us hope and comfort us? Or does this idea scare you, because God knows all your secrets? How should the Good News about Jesus give you peace about this idea?`