---
title: 'The One Who Made Us Also Saves Us'
date: 10/05/2023
---

Look at the First Angel’s Message. What’s it about? The First Angel’s Message is about three things: (1) the Good News about Jesus, (2) the teaching that it’s time for God to judge all people, and (3) the command to worship God because He made us. Do you see how all three of these ideas are connected? The Good News is the only thing that gives us any hope at all when God judges us. “So now anyone who is in Christ Jesus is not judged guilty” (Romans 8:1, ERV).

The message about God as the One who made us is important for our times. Evolution, as we saw, is the false science that teaches us that life started because of an accident. Evolution is an attack on the Christian faith. Worse, some people try to mix evolution together with Bible truth.

But we have hope. God has a church in these end times: the Seventh-day Adventist Church. The seventh-day Sabbath helps us remember that God made us. So, the name of our church helps everyone see that evolution is false science.

`Read Ephesians 3:9; Colossians 1:13–17; Revelation 4:11; and Romans 5:17–19. What do these verses teach us about Jesus as the One who made us and saves us?`

Look at how the idea that Jesus made us is connected to the idea that Jesus is our Savior. When we say Jesus didn’t give us life, we show we don’t value Him as our Savior. Jesus came to save us from suffering, sin, and death. Evolution teaches us that suffering, sin, and death are things that caused life to happen. So, if this false idea were true, then that means that God saves us from the very things He used to make us! This idea is a lie.

Evolution says that Jesus’ death on the cross isn’t important. Why? Paul connects Adam’s sin to Jesus’ death (read Romans 5:17–19). So, there is a strong connection between Adam and Jesus. But evolution teaches that Adam didn’t cause death to happen because millions of years of death were needed to make Adam and human life to begin with.

So, we can see that evolution is an attack on the Cross. Seventh-day Adventists invite people everywhere to worship the One who made them. Seventh-day Adventists are living proof that the science of evolution is false.