---
title: 'Jesus On The Cross'
date: 11/05/2023
---

As we already know, the God who made us is the God who saves us. This same God said, “ ‘Now let’s make humans who will be like [the same in many ways as] us’ ” (Genesis 1:26, ERV). This same God also cried out on the cross. “About three o’clock Jesus cried out loudly, ‘Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?’ This means ‘My God, my God, why have you left me alone?’ ” (Matthew 27:46, ERV). Jesus made us and died for us. No wonder we should respect God and give Him praise and worship!

That is why the First Angel’s Message tells us to do these things: “ ‘Fear [respect] God and give him praise. The time has come for God to judge all people. Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [places where the water comes out of the earth]’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV).

`Read John 19:16–30. In these verses, John writes about Jesus’ experience on the cross. As you read this story, think about Bible verses that teach us that Jesus made us. Paul tells us that Jesus “created [made] everything in heaven and on earth. He [Jesus] created everything that can be seen and everything that can’t be seen. He created kings, powers [kingdoms], rulers [leaders] and authorities [governments]. All things have been created by him and for him” (Colossians 1:16, NIrV). How do we answer this wonderful proof of God’s love?`

This First Angel’s Message commands us to worship the One who made us. The first angel gives this command after Jesus already died on the cross. Jesus’ followers on earth knew that Jesus “made the heavens [skies], the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [places where the water comes out of the earth]” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). Jesus’ followers also knew that He was God. The followers knew that this same God “put aside [gave up] everything that belonged to Him and made Himself the same as a servant who is owned by someone. He became human by being born as a man. After He became a man, He gave up His important place [His throne] and obeyed by dying on a cross” (Philippians 2:7, 8, NLV).

`Do we need to add anything more to Jesus’ offering for our sins on the cross? Or is His death enough to save us? Explain your answer in class.`