---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 12/05/2023
---

Worshiping God is one of the most important teachings in the Bible. In the Old Testament, God’s prophets, or special messengers, warned God’s people not to worship other gods. We see that this same problem is part of the worldwide war between God and Satan today. Another problem we see today is that many people who say they are Christians also teach that we no longer need to keep God’s law.

“Worship is one of the most important parts of our lives. What should humans do when they learn about God and understand who He is? They should worship Him. . . . Only living people can worship the Lord. The dead can’t praise or worship Him. . . . The God who made us invites us to give our lives to Him. This gift is the same as worship. God will give us back our lives so that we can serve Him and be a blessing to other people. God will make our lives better, too. Worship is about who we are as humans and the reasons why we are here on this earth. Worship is about our need for something outside ourselves that frees us from selfishness. What if we choose not to worship God? Then we will become confused and lose our reason for living. A life without God is the same thing as dying. Why? Because without God, we will be separated from God Himself. He is the Giver of all life.”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,”  (from an unpublished paper), page 42, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We know that God made us. At the same time, why do we, as sinners, need the promise of a Savior, too?`

`How has God shown His love for you in a personal way? This same God also made all the stars in the sky and everything else! This same God loves you enough to care about your life. Why should this Bible truth give you comfort? Why should it cause you to empty your heart of all pride, too?`

`Pretend for a moment that evolution is true. If it’s true, that means we are worshiping a God who used billions of years of death, pain, suffering, and tragedy to make us. At the same time, this false idea changes everything that Genesis 1 and 2 teach. If evolution is true, how could we worship God? Worship Him for what? For lying to us for thousands of years about how we got here on this earth?`