---
title:  Opposition Begins
date:  20/10/2019
---

`Read Ezra 4:1–5. Why do you think the Israelite remnant refused the help of other people in building the temple?`

On the surface, the request seemed like a kind, neighborly thing to do; so, why turn down the help? In one sense, the answer is found in the text itself. The “adversaries” came to offer them help. Adversaries? That alone gives a powerful hint as to why the Israelites reacted as they did.

Why were the people called “adversaries”? 2 Kings 17:24–41 explains that these people were imported from other nations into Samaria and the surrounding region after the northern kingdom Israelites were deported. The king of Assyria sent them priests, who were to teach them how to worship the God of the land—that is, the God of Israel. However, the resulting religion incorporated the Canaanite gods, as well. Therefore, the remnant Israelites were afraid that this religion would be brought into their temple worship. Hence, the best and smartest thing to do was what they did, which was to say, “No, thank you.”

We have to remember, too, just why all this was happening to begin with. It was their forefathers’ constant compromise with the pagan faiths around them that led to the destruction of the temple, as well as to their exile. Presumably, while in the very process of building the temple anew, the last thing that they would want to do would be to get too closely aligned with the people around them.

`What else in these texts shows why this refusal was the right thing to do? See Ezra 4:4, 5.`

`Think about how easily they could have rationalized accepting this help. What does 2 Corinthians 6:14 have to say to us in this context?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Close by the Israelites who had set themselves to the task of rebuilding the temple, dwelt the Samaritans, a mixed race that had sprung up through the intermarriage of heathen colonists from the provinces of Assyria with the remnant of the ten tribes which had been left in Samaria and Galilee. . . . 

During the period of the restoration, these Samaritans came to be known as “the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin.” Hearing that “the children of the captivity builded the temple unto the Lord God of Israel,” “they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the fathers,” and expressed a desire to unite with them in its erection. . . .

. . . But had the Jewish leaders accepted this offer of assistance, they would have opened a door for the entrance of idolatry. They discerned the insincerity of the Samaritans. They realized that help gained through an alliance with these men would be as nothing in comparison with the blessing they might expect to receive by following the plain commands of Jehovah.—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 567, 568.

The prophet . . . did not regard the people of the land as worshipers of the true God, and though these professed friendship and wished to help them, they dared not unite with them in anything relating to His worship. When going up to Jerusalem to build the temple of God and to restore His worship, they would not ask help of the king to assist them in the way, but by fasting and prayer sought the Lord for help. They believed that God would defend and prosper His servants in their efforts to serve Him. The Creator of all things needs not the help of His enemies to establish His worship. He asks not the sacrifice of wickedness, nor accepts the offerings of those who have other gods before the Lord. 

We often hear the remark: “You are too exclusive.” As a people we would make any sacrifice to save souls, or lead them to the truth. But to unite with them, to love the things that they love, and have friendship with the world, we dare not, for we should then be at enmity with God.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 1, p. 282. 

With many, the love for the human eclipses the love for the divine. They take the first step in backsliding by venturing to disregard the Lord’s express command; and complete apostasy is too often the result. It has ever proved a dangerous thing for men to carry out their own will in opposition to the requirements of God. Yet it is a hard lesson for men to learn that God means what He says. As a rule, those who choose for their friends and companions, persons who reject Christ and trample upon God’s law, eventually become of the same mind and spirit.

If we would rise to the highest moral excellence, and attain to the perfection of religious character, what discrimination should be used in the formation of friendships, and the choice of a companion for life.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 165.