---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/10/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Builders on the Wall,” “A Rebuke Against Extortion,” and “Heathen Plots,” pp. 635– 660, in Prophets and Kings.

“The opposition and discouragement that the builders in Nehemiah’s day met from open enemies and pretended friends is typical of the experience that those today will have who work for God. Christians are tried, not only by the anger, contempt, and cruelty of enemies, but by the indolence, inconsistency, lukewarmness, and treachery of avowed friends and helpers.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 644.

“In Nehemiah’s firm devotion to the work of God, and his equally firm reliance on God, lay the reason of the failure of his enemies to draw him into their power. The soul that is indolent falls an easy prey to temptation; but in the life that has a noble aim, an absorbing purpose, evil finds little foothold. The faith of him who is constantly advancing does not weaken; for above, beneath, beyond, he recognizes Infinite Love, working out all things to accomplish His good purpose. God’s true servants work with a determination that will not fail because the throne of grace is their constant dependence.” —Page 660.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Put yourself in the position of Zerubbabel and Joshua and the other leaders when those men came to them with the offer of help. Looking back now, we can see that they did the right thing by not accepting that offer. As Adventists, how can we know when we should and should not collaborate with others not of our faith? How do we decide if it is right or wrong? What criteria can we follow?`

`All through biblical history we see the dangers of compromising our faith with the world. Indeed, the whole history of ancient Israel, right up to the Babylonian captivity, was a powerful example of this compromise. At the same time, what happens when people go to extremes in trying to avoid that danger? When Jesus Himself was accused of violating the Sabbath (see John 9:14–16), do we not have a powerful example of His accusers going to the other extreme? How do we find the right balance?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Prophets and Kings_, “The Builders on the Wall,” pp. 635–645; 

_The Ministry of Healing_, “The Science to Be Mastered,” pp, 453, 454.