---
title:  The Real Joshua
date:  29/11/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Romans 5:14; Matthew 2:15; Joshua 1:1–3; Hebrews 3:7–4:11; 1 Timothy 1:18.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Those things happened to them as examples for us. They were written down to warn us. That’s because we are living at the time when God’s work is being completed” (1 Corinthians 10:11, NIrV).

In the book of Joshua, Joshua the man is a symbol. He stands for something much more than himself. We see this important rule all through the Bible. The land of Canaan is a symbol for our hope in a new earth. The work that the priests or religious leaders did in the holy tent was a symbol, too. Their work showed us the work that Jesus does for us in heaven: “But now Christ [came] as our special priest. He brings us the good things that [we now have]. He [went] into God’s own place in heaven. That [place] is a greater [more perfect] and much better tent than the old tabernacle [holy tent]. No person made this tent. It does not belong to this world [earth] at all” (Hebrews 9:11, EASY).

We must ask the questions: If Joshua is a symbol, what does that symbol mean? How can we be sure our answer is correct? What important rules help us to learn the meaning of symbols? What do these symbols mean for us in the end times?

This week, we will look at important rules for understanding the meaning of Bible symbols. We will study how the life of Joshua is a symbol for the work of the coming Savior. The life of Joshua also is a symbol for the work of the church and for things that will happen in the end times.