---
title:  Bible Symbols
date:  30/11/2025
---

`Study these verses about Bible symbols: Romans 5:14; 1 Corinthians 10:1–13; Hebrews 8:5; and Hebrews 9:23. What do these verses tell us about symbols and what they mean?`

Some of these Bible verses use the word “copy.” The things on earth in the Old Testament holy tent were copies of the real things in heaven. So, an Old Testament copy is a symbol for someone or something else that will happen in the future.

When we study Bible copies or symbols, we start with persons, happenings, or things in the Old Testament. We ask the question, How do these things show us Jesus and other Bible truths in the New Testament? God uses symbols in the Old Testament to help us understand Bible truths in the New Testament.

We must understand an important Bible truth about symbols. New Testament writers didn’t make up meanings for Old Testament symbols when they wrote. God gave the Old Testament symbols their meanings from the start. New Testament writers showed how the things that these symbols stood for happened in their time.

**Look at what the Old Testament writers said about King David. Then look at what the New Testament writers say about him. What lessons do these verses teach us about symbols and how they work in the Bible?**

`a. David: the man (Psalm 22:1, 14–18)`

`b. David: a symbol of future promises (Jeremiah 23:5; Isaiah 9:5, 6; Isaiah 11:1–5)`

`c. David’s words in the New Testament (John 19:24)`

When we look at these verses, we learn how the Old Testament helps us to understand the symbols in the New Testament. New Testament writers used the Old Testament symbols to teach Bible truth (2 Peter 1:12, NKJV) about Jesus and His work.