---
title:  Symbols And Their Meanings
date:  01/12/2025
---

No one is allowed to decide what a Bible symbol is or what it means in the New Testament. The Bible itself shows us the symbols and what they mean. The Bible also gives us important rules to help us understand these symbols and their meanings.

Each Old Testament symbol can have three different meanings in the New Testament. Three questions can help us understand what these meanings are: (1) What does the symbol show us about Jesus’ life? (2) What does the symbol show us about the experience of the church? (3) What does the symbol show us about the end times?

We can see these Old Testament symbols and their meanings all through the Bible. These symbols and their meanings are very helpful. They show readers how to understand the Bible. They show us what the Bible teaches about Jesus, His saving plan, and the hope we have in Him.

Look at three Old Testament symbols below: (1) Israel, (2) the Exodus, and (3) God’s holy tent. The Exodus was the time when God helped Israel to escape from slavery in Egypt. What do each of the three symbols teach us about Jesus, the church, and the end times?

1. How is Israel a symbol of
	- a. Jesus (Matthew 2:15)
	- b. the church (Galatians 6:16)
	- c. the end times (Revelation 7:4–8, 14)
2. How is Exodus a symbol of
	- a. Jesus (Matthew 2:19–21)
	- b. the church (2 Corinthians 6:17)
	- c. the end times (Revelation 18:4)
3. How is God’s holy tent a symbol of
	- a. Jesus (John 1:14; John 2:21, Matthew 26:61)
	- b. the church (1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; 2 Corinthians 6:16)
	- c. the end times (Revelation 3:12; Revelation 11:19; Revelation 21:3; Revelation 21:22)

“God is the real Writer of the Bible. So, the different parts of the Bible are in agreement. . . . All Bible teachings will agree too. Our explanations of the Bible must agree with what the Bible teaches about a topic.”—Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology, page 65, adapted.