---
title:  Joshua, The Symbol
date:  02/12/2025
---

`How are the lives of Moses and Joshua the same? In what ways is Joshua a symbol for Moses? Read Exodus 3:1, 2; Joshua 1:1–3; Numbers 13:1, 2; Joshua 2:1; Exodus 3:5; and Joshua 5:15 for the answers.`

As we saw in Lesson 1, Joshua is the same as a ‘new’ Moses. Joshua also does many of the things that Moses did during the Exodus. The Exodus was the time when God helped Israel escape from slavery in Egypt. What else is the same between Moses and Joshua? Both Moses and Joshua meet with God. During their meetings, God gives each man his orders. Under the leadership of both men, Israel becomes famous. The countries around Israel are filled with fear. Moses leads Israel across the Red Sea. Joshua leads Israel across the Jordan. Both leaders celebrate the Passover. The Passover is the time when God saves the Israelites from the Egyptians. Both leaders understand that God wants all Israelite males to be circumcised. To be circumcised means to cut off the skin at the tip of the male sex parts. Manna or bread from heaven started to fall in the time of Moses. The manna stopped falling with Joshua’s leadership. God commands both Moses and Joshua to remove their shoes. When both men hold out their hands, Israel wins their fights. Moses tells the Israelites how to divide the land and how to set up cities of safety. Joshua divides the land and sets up the cities. Both Moses and Joshua give a goodbye sermon to Israel. At the end of their work for God, both men help Israel make the promise with God new again.

`Moses says that God will send a special mes­senger the same as Himself. Who is this special mes­senger? How does Joshua fit into this promise? Read Deuteronomy 18:15–19; Deuteronomy 34:10–12; John 1:21; Acts 3:22–26; and Acts 7:37.`

Joshua is part of God’s answer to the promise He gives Moses (Deuteronomy 18:15, 18). But only the Savior can keep the promise that Moses makes. Jesus knew the Father (John 1:14, 18). The Savior showed the truth about the Father (Luke 10:22; John 14:6; Matthew 22:16). God gave Jesus His words to say (John 14:24). So, the lives of Moses and Joshua give us symbols that help us understand Jesus’ life.