---
title:  The New Joshua
date:  03/12/2025
---

The wars that Joshua fought were real wars. These wars are an important part of Israel’s history. God used these wars to help the Israelites settle in the Promised Land. There, the Israelites will enjoy peace and start a new govern­ment. The government will honor God’s law.

Later, Old Testament writers show that the Savior will do the same thing that Joshua did. Isaiah shows us that the promised Savior “will give the land that is now ruined back to its owners” (Isaiah 49:8, ICB). This verse shows us that the Savior will be the new Joshua. Just as Joshua gave the land to the Israelites, the Savior will give the new Israel all the gifts that God promised the church.

`Read Hebrews 3:7–4:11. The Old Testament shows us that Joshua is the new Moses. How does the New Testament show that Joshua is also a symbol for Jesus Christ?`

The writers of the New Testament show that Jesus does many of the things that Joshua did. Joshua stepped into Canaan after 40 years in the desert. In the same way, Jesus started His work for God after 40 days in the desert (Matthew 4:1–11; Luke 4:1–13). Jesus also started His work in heaven for us 40 days after He woke up from the dead (Acts 1:3, 9–11).

Joshua crossed the Jordan River. Jesus was baptized in the Jordan River (Matthew 3:13–17; Mark 1:9–11). After His baptism, Matthew, Mark, and Luke use a quote from a song about the Suffering Servant from God (Matthew 3:17; Mark 1:11; Luke 3:22). Because of His baptism, Jesus is the Warrior who will fight the wars of God against evil. Jesus’ life and death cause God to throw Satan out of heaven for good. Jesus’ life and death help us win the fight over our spiritual enemies (Ephesians 4:8). Jesus offers spiritual rest to His people. He promises us a home in the new earth (Hebrews 9:15).

`What does it mean to “rest” in everything Jesus did for us and continues to do for us? Jesus won the fight against Satan for us. Why does this thought give us hope?`