---
title:  Joshua And Us
date:  04/12/2025
---

`Joshua is a symbol for Jesus. Also, Joshua is a symbol for the success of God’s church. The church is the same as Jesus’ body. How do the wars that Joshua fought with Israel show us the church’s fight against evil? How are these fights different? Read 1 Timothy 1:18; 2 Timothy 4:7; Ephesians 6:10–12; 2 Corinthians 10:3–5; and Acts 20:32.`

The New Testament writers understood that Joshua was a symbol for the church. The members of the church are the same as the body of Jesus Christ. The church fights spiritual battles against evil. At the same time, the church enjoys rest because of God’s mercy (Hebrews 4:9–11). The church also now enjoys many of the blessings of the things that God promises them in the future.

`Read 1 Peter 1:4; Colossians 3:24; Revelation 20:9; and Revelation 21:3.`

Joshua’s life showed so much of God’s love and His law. That’s why Joshua’s life is a symbol for the Savior and the work He came to do.

For us today, the Savior already came. So, we don’t need symbols to promise us the things that He will come to do. At the same time, we can show people who Jesus is. We can show God’s glory and honor in our lives. Jesus wanted to share this glory with His followers (John 17:22). We can have this glory when we think about the love of God and His law. The more we think about Jesus, the more we show the beauty of His law and His love. If we want to do these things, we must spend time studying the Bible every day. We also must spend time thinking about Jesus’ love and His teachings. For sure, when we look at Jesus, we will become changed.

`Joshua asked the Israelites: “ ‘Why do you wait so long to take your land? The Lord, the God of your ancestors, has given this land to you’ ” (Joshua 18:3, ICB). How would Jesus ask us this same question today?`