---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  05/12/2025
---

“The church needs people who are the same as Caleb and Joshua. Caleb and Joshua were loyal and filled with faith. The church needs people who are ready to accept everlasting life and are willing to obey God. Our churches badly need these workers. These workers must share Jesus everywhere on earth. The cities and villages also badly need these Bible workers. The people in these cities and villages worship false gods. They are no different from the people in Asia who haven’t heard Bible truth. These people worship nature and many gods. The true love for souls is missing from the hearts of church members. These church members say that they serve God. But their hearts are no longer warm with a love for people. They no longer care about sharing Jesus with them and leading them to Jesus. We want workers who care about God’s cause. Who will answer the cry that comes from people everywhere on earth: ‘Come over . . . and help us!’ [Acts 16:9, NLV]?”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, page 156, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How do the symbols in the Bible help you to understand better the work of Jesus Christ for you?`

`How are the spiritual battles that we fight the same as Joshua’s war to win Canaan? How are our battles different?`

`Joshua was a symbol of the promises that God made to modern Israel. God kept those promises to His church in the life and death of Jesus. Think about how Jesus kept all the promises that God made to us in Joshua. Now think about God’s promise of a life without pain, suffering, and death. How does this future promise give us real hope in the everyday problems that we have in our lives?`

`Joshua showed God’s love in his life. Joshua’s life showed us the work that Jesus came to do and is doing for us now in heaven. What are some of the ways that you can let Jesus show His love in you more fully?`