### Introduction

Jesus Christ was no doubt the greatest teacher the world has ever known. He amazed and astonished people with His teachings. His words reached men and women of all ages; Jews and Gentiles alike flocked to hear Him speak. Both the rich and poor, the educated and uneducated, found something in His instructions that touched the deepest chords of their hearts. Jesus’ words have continued to impact generation after generation in the years since He left the world; the gospel accounts have inspired millions. This incredible fact is really no surprise since Christ’s words were carefully crafted in the very heart of God—a God of love, a God who spoke and it came to be, a God who created human beings and placed within them a longing for truth.

In a world that was sunk in sin and separated from its Maker, Jesus came to reveal God’s loving character to humanity. To reach the sinful heart barricaded by pride and selfishness, Jesus called people’s attention to the principles that govern true happiness. Through practical illustrations and stories, He drew His audiences into a new world where healing and restoration could take place. Jesus called this new reality His kingdom. It’s a kingdom where love for God and for others is central. Everyone is invited, but Christ made it plain that not everyone would want to be a citizen of that kingdom.

It was through parables that Jesus explained what His kingdom is like. Using nature and illustrations from everyday life, He painted a vivid picture of what it means to follow Him and live in harmony with God. Parable teaching was popular at the time and commanded the respect and attention of both Jews and people from other nations. The word parable means to “cast alongside”—it’s a story given alongside spiritual truth, one that provides an avenue to more deeply explore the moral and spiritual reality. The different stories Jesus told appealed to many different people. The core truths of His kingdom were packaged in such a way that people from a wide variety of backgrounds could find purpose and meaning in His words. And so it is today! Christ’s parables continue to shape the lives of people all around the world.

As we read and study these transformative stories, we will be both inspired and challenged—inspired by the mind-blowing beauty of the gospel and challenged by the need to let Jesus change us from within. Jesus’ parables cover a wide range of topics, but they all center on the overarching theme of revealing what the kingdom of God is really like. In contrast to the way of life, there is a way that leads to death, and Christ’s parables warn us about this destructive road and remind us of the great controversy between good and evil that rages in this universe. In the end, there are only two sides in this cosmic conflict.

The parables engage our minds and hearts, revealing how we can tap into the power that comes from God. Through these lessons, we will discover the power available to us. Jesus told stories about the power of forgiveness and love, He invites us to experience the power that comes through prayer, and He assures us of the power that will be ours when we build our lives on Him, the Rock of Ages. Jesus shows us the unexpected power that comes through giving ourselves to serve others. He reveals what will last when the great storm, predicted in prophecy, sweeps across the world before Jesus’ return.

The parables uncover what really matters in this life and in eternity. Jesus reveals through His stories how we can be filled with the Holy Spirit as we await the coming of the Bridegroom. Yes, that’s right—we are invited to a wedding! And we don’t have to wonder what to wear; Jesus has provided a wedding garment! All this and more we will find in these extraordinary stories that transform.

Let’s prayerfully embark on this journey together. It’s going to be both exhilarating and challenging. As we unpack each parable we will discover principles and tools that will help us properly interpret the meaning behind each story. May the stories that have touched millions make a difference in your life today. You are no accident; you were made for a purpose. Let Jesus, the greatest Teacher, reveal to you what that purpose is.

_Daniel Pel_