---
title:  A Multidimensional Superstructure
date:  20/04/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Psalm 97**

**A Multidimensional Superstructure**

The Burj Khalifa, located in Dubai, is the tallest building in the world. It stands 2,716 feet (828 m) tall and is truly an engineering marvel. The extraordinary weight and height require a massive foundation to support the superstructure against earthquakes and wind and to provide a solid base on the sandy soil. The foundation consists of a massive concrete-and-steel mat, which is approximately 12 feet (3.7 m) thick and extends over roughly 48,400 square feet (4,500 sq. m.). In addition to the large surface area, the foundation piles extend 164 feet (50 m) belowground to rest on a layer of very hard rock. This helps evenly distribute the weight of the building and prevent the foundation from sinking or shifting over time.

Every building needs a solid foundation. So does any organization that desires to last. Societies around the world are built on a variety of foundational governing principles, ideals, and concepts, without which they cannot function properly. Even so, none of them have proven to last forever. Empires, kingdoms, governments, and societies all rise and eventually fall.

The government of the universe, the kingdom of God, is the largest and most important organization in existence. Its territory includes all of reality in all dimensions, in eternity past and eternity future. Just like the Burj Khalifa needs a massive foundation to stand secure, a superstructure of such infinite magnitude as God’s government needs a foundation that’s just as eternal, enduring, and powerful as God Himself in order to withstand the “earthquakes” of Satan’s claims against God’s rulership. The ingredients to the metaphorical concrete that makes up this universal super-foundation will be the focus of this week’s study.

#### inScribe

Write out Psalm 97 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 1–6. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._