---
title:  Righteousness and Justice, Love and Truth
date:  21/04/2024
---

#### inGest

“The Lord reigns” (Ps. 97:1). Your emotional response to this statement depends on who you think “the Lord” is and what you think He’s like. If the verse said, “Hitler reigns,” it would certainly not trigger any positive reaction. If it said, “Mother Theresa reigns,” you might have questions, but you wouldn’t feel the same way you felt with Hitler. Fortunately, the author of this psalm assures us that this Lord is, in fact, God (v. 9b) and that His reign is cause for rejoicing and gladness. In contrast, Satan denies God’s goodness and poses questions about His character and intentions (e.g., Gen. 3:1, 4, 5; Job 1:9–11). Satan suggests doubts to undermine God’s leadership and ultimately overthrow Him and His kingdom (Isa. 14:13, 14).

Who is the Lord that He should be King? What guides His rulership? According to the Psalmist, “Righteousness and justice are the foundation of His [God’s] throne” (Ps. 97:2, emphasis added). Righteousness can be understood as being morally right or justifiable. It’s a standard of conduct based on principles of fairness, honesty, and integrity. To be righteous is to behave in a way that’s consistent with these principles, doing what’s right and good. If God’s kingship is marked by righteousness, it means He’s in perfect harmony with the law that defines what is right and good. As the Creator, all law, whether moral or natural, are expressions of who He is. If righteousness is the foundation of God’s throne, there simply cannot be any inconsistencies with God—no hypocrisy, no double standards. God is and always will be who He says He is. He does not change (Mal. 3:6). Righteousness is God’s perfect character of love (Ps. 18:30; 1 John 4:8) and holiness (Rev. 4:8) on display through all He is and does.

Justice is the quality of being fair and equitable. It’s a standard of behavior that ensures that all are treated impartially and receive what they’re due according to the law. Justice is the process by which laws are applied in a fair manner. If righteousness is God’s heart expressed, justice is righteousness at work on the law’s behalf.

A kingdom in which the King rules with righteousness and justice is almost impossible to imagine on this earth, yet the psalmist sees with prophetic vision King Jesus caring for the entire universe in this very way. His benevolent heart beats for His creations, and from this profound love He has made an incredible promise: each of us can choose to be a citizen in His kingdom, despite our sins, because He has made a way to declare us righteous (Ps. 97:12).

Just as “the mountains melt like wax at the presence of the Lord” (v. 5), so too will Satan’s lies and false depictions of God as an unfair ruler and tyrant melt in the light of His goodness and truth. God has revealed Himself and His character to this fallen world in Jesus. Therefore, “rejoice in the Lord, you righteous, and give thanks at the remembrance of His holy name” (v. 12), for He rules with righteousness and justice, love and truth.

Journal:

`How can God be righteous and just and yet accept and forgive sinners?`

`Why do you think so many people doubt God’s leadership? How can we learn to trust His leadership?`