---
title:  Worship That Is Worth It
date:  22/04/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Worship plays a major part in the great controversy between Christ and Satan. Isaiah 14:13 tells us Satan desired God’s throne because he wished to use that symbol of power to obtain the worship and allegiance of its subjects, but could God’s throne alone provide this coveted loyalty? Psalm 97:7 calls all people to worship God exclusively. What is worship, then, and what makes someone worthy of worship? Would a magnificent, awe-inducing, spectacular appearance alone do the trick?

Merriam-Webster defines worship as “reverence offered [to] a divine being or supernatural power.” Historically, the word worship is connected to the word “worth,” meaning to hold in honor, esteem, show respect for, or revere. In other words, to worship is to ascribe special worth to someone or something. As the only Being with the power to create from nothing, God is, ex officio, worthy of worship (Rev. 4:11). In addition to creating matter and life in the past, God also continues to sustain and uphold life every day (Acts 17:28). Worshiping God acknowledges total dependence on Him for all things. All life depends on His daily willingness to provide continued lifeforce to His creations. We’ve seen that God’s reign is one of righteousness and justice—a cause for great rejoicing (Ps. 97:1, 2). Because God is Creator and Sustainer, He can ensure that true righteousness and justice are established throughout His universe.

If there is only one Creator and therefore only one God, worshiping other gods is truly a deluded and meaningless effort. Satan on the throne never could provide justice, righteousness, and life to sustain all of creation. He simply has nothing to offer that makes him worthy of true worship, yet false gods and idols have been around since humanity’s fall. We crave them because we cannot live without worship. Whether carved images, distorted or false religions, iconic people, attention-grabbing objects, or simply the exaltation of self, Satan has invented many ways to keep humanity busy in false worship. He keeps us running in ultimately meaningless circles in pursuit of life, purpose, healing, truth, direction, and help, and he seems quite successful in his deceptions.

Psalm 97 shouts into this darkness, foreshadowing the first angel’s message of Revelation 14: Recognize and worship the only One who can and will provide you with all you need and more! Only the Lord is worthy, for He alone is Creator!

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Where do you go for a quick fix or a moment of relief? How do these sources compare to the ultimate Source?`