---
title:  'His Kingdom: Already, but not Yet'
date:  24/04/2024
---

#### inVite

Psalm 97 exalts the Lord as the only true God, the King of the universe who rules with righteousness and justice, love and truth—qualities most people would like to see in their heads of state and the laws of their lands. God calls those who are loyal to His kingdom “saints,” “righteous,” and “upright in heart” (vv. 10, 11). These are the citizens who rejoice in His decision-making (v. 8), who love Him and hate evil (v. 10). If this described everybody, we might have a perfectly harmonious society!

God’s kingdom has not yet become perfectly united. Jesus has not yet returned surrounded by clouds, preceded by fire, lightning, and earthquakes, and greeted by mountains melting away at His presence as all the earth sees His glory (vv. 2–6). As you’ve been studying this week’s lesson, you may have been longing for a place where truth and love are the foundation of life. Take heart—it will come soon! This is our great hope. By faith, we look forward to that moment, and by faith, we live today on this side of eternity. However, God did not command us to simply wait and hope. Jesus powerfully proclaimed, “the kingdom of God is within you” (Luke 17:21). As we joyfully surrender to Him and become citizens of heaven (Phil. 3:20), His Spirit works a transformation of the heart through which we not only learn to appreciate more and more of God’s rulership and law but also develop a character in harmony with His Our words and actions begin to reflect God’s kingdom of righteousness and justice even now in our sphere of sinful influence.

Lucifer wanted a kingdom of a different order. Anyone who wonders what the universe would be like with Satan on the throne must look no further than the atrocities and horrors of this world (John 8:44) while holding no hope for righteousness, justice, or eternal life. Destruction, chaos, and death uphold that reign. Force, lies, and brutality motivate that worship. What a contrast to our loving God, and what an easy choice to make when God is seen in truth!

All who “love the Lord” and “hate evil” (Ps. 97:10) can have the assurance that Jesus delivers and preserves them. “Light is sown” (v. 11) where before there was only darkness. In full harmony with His righteousness and justice, Jesus declares us righteous, so that today and throughout eternity we will continually “rejoice in the Lord... and give thanks at the remembrance of His holy name” (v. 12). Indeed, the whole universe will worship God for His incredible goodness.

Journal:

`Meditate on Psalm 97 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what ways does Psalm 97 describe Jesus as the King of the universe?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`