---
title:  One Heart, Mind, Spirit, and Body
date:   13/04/2025
---

Marriage shows us the loving relationship that God wants with us. Few other word pictures in the Bible show us this Bible truth. Bible writers use marriage as a word picture for Bible truth a lot, as we see in the book of Revelation. So, Bible students need to understand what God means when He uses marriage as a word picture in the Bible.

`The Bible talks about marriage in Genesis 2:23–25 and Ephesians 5:29–32. How does a human marriage show us Jesus’ relationship with people?`

Jesus was talking with the Jewish religious leaders. Jesus used a quote from the Genesis story about Adam and Eve’s marriage. Then the Jewish leaders asked Jesus the question, “ ‘Then why did Moses command that a man can give his wife a letter of divorce and send her away?’ ” (Matthew 19:7, NIrV).

For the Jews, Moses was one of the most important messengers God sent to His people. The Lord invented marriage. The Jewish leaders were trying to match this same God against His own special messenger. The Jewish leaders often tried to prove that Jesus’ teachings didn’t agree with the Bible.

God meant for marriage to continue for a lifetime. God never wanted married people to cheat. Sad to say, as sinners, we have ruined marriage in many ways.

We should not be surprised that Satan always tries to attack marriage. Along with the Sabbath, marriage is one of the two gifts God gave us in Eden. Both gifts show God’s plan to have a close relationship with us.

Marriage pairs two people together who are far from perfect. So, marriage will give us cause for problems. A marriage between the church and Jesus matches a perfect Savior with a bride who isn’t perfect. Even so, we can learn about God’s love from what a good marriage offers.

`Here are three important rules for marriage: First, forgive each other, even if your wife or husband didn’t do anything to earn your forgiveness. Second, accept each other, just as Jesus accepts us with all our problems and mistakes. Third, try to please your husband or wife, and not yourself. How may these three important rules help us understand how God loves us? Also, how can these rules help any marriage?`