---
title:  The Beautiful Bride
date:   14/04/2025
---

Ezekiel 16 shows us an amazing word picture of God’s love for His people. God compares the people of Israel to a baby someone left in a field to die. The Lord takes the baby home. He cleans her up. When she is full grown, the Lord marries her. This picture of marriage is very powerful.

`Read Ezekiel 16:4–14. What does this story about God’s care for the bride teach us about His plan for us?`

God told Israel that under His care, the bride “ ‘became very beautiful’ ” (Ezekiel 16:13, NIrV). When God first found her, no one thought she was beautiful. No one wanted her as a child. She was left to die. Then God cared for her. She became more and more beautiful until she was famous. (During the times of King David and King Solomon, Israel was famous. The Queen of Sheba made a special trip to see the beauty of Israel for herself!)

Israel’s beauty was a gift from God. Israel was beautiful because she was His bride. God says that she was so beautiful that everyone on earth was talking about it: “ ‘You became famous for your beauty, all because I made you so lovely!’ ” (Ezekiel 16:14, ERV).

God’s bride is beautiful, but not because she did anything to make herself beautiful. She is beautiful because God blessed her with His favor and made her that way. In the same way, Christians become beautiful in God’s eyes, too. We are not beautiful because of anything we do to make ourselves beautiful. We did not earn our beauty. We are beautiful because God showed us His mercy. Our beauty is His gift to us. We are beautiful because God makes us right with Him (2 Corinthians 5:21). God puts Jesus’ holy love on us, the same as clothes.

Everything was okay with the bride until the next verse in Ezekiel: “ ‘But you trusted in your beauty. You used your fame to become a prostitute [a person who has sex with someone for pay]. You offered your body freely to anyone who passed by. In fact, you gave yourself to anyone who wanted you’ ” (Ezekiel 16:15, NIrV).

God made us to show His love and glory. When we believe that we made our beauty, our beauty becomes cheap and useless. Then we will get into trouble.

`How can we protect ourselves against spiritual pride?`