---
title:  Hosea’s Bad Wife
date:   15/04/2025
---

God asked His special messenger Hosea to do something very strange. God told Hosea to go and marry a prostitute. As we saw yesterday, a prostitute is a person who has sex with someone for pay. God commanded Hosea to marry a prostitute because He wanted us to understand that sin is very terrible. God chose a wife, Israel. Israel cheated on God again and again. But God accepted her back after she cheated on Him. God helped her become a new person.

`Compare Hosea 1:2; Hosea 3:1; Revelation 17:1, 2; and Revelation 18:1–4. What is a prostitute a word picture for in these verses? What lessons can the Christian church learn from the story of Hosea? In what ways has the Christian church done the same sins as Israel in Old Testament times?`

The Bible shows that the New Testament church would make the same mistakes that Israel made in the Old Testament. The Jews sinned against God with false gods before the Babylonians carried them away. In the same way, the Christian church, in the a.d. 300s, had problems. The teachings of Arius divided the church. Constantine, the king of Rome, was worried. So, he caused church leaders to meet at Nicaea. Then Constantine tried to solve the problem with Arius’ teachings. In both the Old and New Testament examples, God’s people didn’t go to Him to solve their problems.

God’s choice of words shows us that He is helping us see what we’ve done wrong and how that makes Him feel. People whose husbands or wives cheat on them can understand how our sins make Jesus feel. Maybe the most amazing part of Hosea’s story is how far Hosea went to save his sinning wife.

Notice the people God is talking to when He gives the final warning to come out of Babylon. God is inviting **His own people**, and not strangers. God knows who His people are. He loves them. At the worst hour in human history, God offers to save them. He paid for them with His blood. The cross of Jesus, more than anything else, shows us how much the Lord wants to save His people.

`What are the ways today that any church, even our own, can “cheat” on God?`