---
title:  Isaac and Rebekah
date:   16/04/2025
---

When Abraham was old, no doubt he thought about the promise God made to him about his future children (read Genesis 15:5). So, Abraham gave his oldest and most trusted servant an important job.

`Read Genesis 24:1–4. Why would it be so important to Abraham that his son not marry “a girl from Canaan” (Genesis 24:3, ERV)?`

Abraham’s reason was spiritual. He knew that the religion of the Canaanites and their worship of false gods were evil. Abraham didn’t want his son to start following the Canaanite religion. If Isaac married a Canaanite wife, that could happen.

Much of the history of Israel during Bible times is about their following the false teachings of the religions around them. The same thing is true for the Christian church today. Maybe the biggest example of this problem is the change from the Bible Sabbath to Sunday. For sure, Sunday worship will be an important part of the end times.

`Read Genesis 24:57–67. What lessons can we learn about Jesus and His church from this story? Rebekah was a far-off cousin to Isaac. What does this information teach us about our connection to the Lord?`

God is our far-off relative because He made us as copies of Himself. But sin separates us from Him. At the same time, we are God’s bride, even when our choices make our “marriage” to Him worse than it needs to be.

`Yes, God loves us, His bride, more than we love Him. What choices can we make every day to make our love for God grow strong? At the same time, what choices will make our love become weak?`