---
title:  God Judges the Evil Woman
date:   17/04/2025
---

`Read Revelation 19:1–9. In these verses, two things are celebrated at the same time: (1) the end of the prostitute and (2) the marriage of Jesus with His bride. As we saw already, a prostitute is a person who has sex with someone for pay. How is it possible that both things show God’s love at the same time?`

Cheating comes at a very painful price. Cheating hurts the lives of our children and other people. Husbands or wives who are cheated on may discover that a time may come when they can’t save their marriage any longer. When the hearts of the people on this earth grow too hard to feel sorry for sin any longer, then God will choose to end human history. God doesn’t want the suffering from sin to continue any longer. At that time, we will feel sad for all the people who are lost. But we can celebrate that sin and suffering are finally over. God will make the earth and the skies new. No one will sin against God again. We learned the hard way that God was correct about the suffering that happens when we separate ourselves from Him.

`Read Revelation 21:1–4. How is marriage used as a word picture in these verses? What does it mean? Why does this word picture fill us with much hope? What hope do these verses promise?`

“Marriage is meant to last for a lifetime. Marriage is a symbol of the relationship between Jesus and His church. The love that Jesus shows the church is the love that husband and wife must show each other.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 7, page 46, adapted.

Jesus suffered terrible pain as people rejected Him and worshiped other gods. But Jesus gave Himself for us, anyway. Jesus paid for our sins. If we confess our sins and stop doing them, Jesus will give us the promise of everlasting life.

`Read 1 Peter 1:18, 19. What do these verses tell us that gives us hope in the end times shown in Revelation 21:1–4?`