---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/04/2025
---

Read John 2:1–11; Matthew 22:1–14; 2 Corinthians 11:1–5; and Matthew 25:1–13.

Some Christians make the symbols and word pictures in Bible stories more important than the story. Then they start to teach that the story isn’t real. Their teachings are false. We always must remember that God can take real experiences that happened and use them to teach us things about His future plans for the church.

Think about the wedding feast at Cana. This story may help us understand how Bible writers use marriage as a symbol in their special messages about the future. “Jesus’ words gave everything that was needed for the feast. In the same way, Jesus’ mercy is so powerful. His mercy can erase our sins, make us new, and give us spiritual life.”
—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 149, adapted.

Or, as we also read in The Desire of Ages, “ ‘When the Lord God decides to do something, he will first tell his servants, the prophets [special messengers].’ Amos 3:7 [ERV]. And ‘the Lord our God keeps certain [some] things hidden. But he makes other things known to us and to our children forever. He does it [tells us these things] so we can obey all the words of this law.’ Deuteronomy 29:29 [NIrV].”—Page 234, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read John 2:1–11. Many things in John’s Gospel story about Jesus show us Jesus’ future work. Bible thinkers notice the way that John leads his readers to the Cross. Where do you see Jesus’ love and future kingdom in the verses of this story? What does it teach us about God’s plan to save us or about the marriage feast that God promises His Son?`

`What does the picture story about the Ten Young Girls teach us about the end times? What does it mean that the groom is arriving later than we thought? What lessons does this picture story teach us about our personal relationship to Jesus and His relationship with the whole church? How are these two things different?`

`Think about false teachings that entered the Christian church. One of them is Sunday worship. What other false beliefs have come in? How have they come into the church? How can we protect ourselves against them?`