---
title: 'The Two Marks: Part 1'
date: 03/06/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 14:12; Matthew 27:45–50; Revelation 13:15–17; Revelation 13:1, 2.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “I saw another angel coming from the east. He was carrying the mark of the living God. He called [announced] with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to hurt the earth and sea. The angel from the east said, ‘Do not hurt the earth or the sea or the trees until we have put the mark of God on the foreheads [top part of the face above the eyes] of the servants He owns’ ” (Revelation 7:2, 3, NLV).

The war between God and Satan is about worship, loyalty, and control. Revelation 13; Daniel 7; and 2 Thessalonians 2:3 talk about these topics. In Daniel 7, we read about the little-horn power. That same power is shown as a wild animal in Revelation 13. 2 Thessalonians 2:3 names this same religious power “the Man of Evil” (ERV). So, the little-horn power, the wild animal, and the Man of Evil are names for the same religious power. This power tries to take control of the church away from God. This power commands people to be loyal to its rules. This power also replaces God’s rules and worships Him with its own rules. This power forces people to accept false ideas about God.

God is different. He is love. God doesn’t force anyone to worship Him. We worship God because we love Him, and He loves us. Only one thing will keep us from getting the sea animal’s mark in the end times. A love for Jesus. This week we will study about the sea animal’s mark.