---
title: 'Patient Until The End'
date: 04/06/2023
---

As we saw in Revelation 14:7, God commands His people to worship Him because He made us. This announcement is the First Angel’s Message. In Revelation 14:8, God warns His people about spiritual Babylon. This announcement is the Second Angel’s Message.

The Third Angel’s Message warns against worshiping the sea-animal power. The angel announces, “ ‘God will punish all those [people] who worship the beast [sea animal] and the beast’s idol [statue; false god] and agree to have the beast’s mark on their forehead [top part of the face above the eyes] or on their hand. They will drink the wine of God’s anger’ ” (Revelation 14:9, 10, ERV).

`Read Revelation 14:12. What two things from these verses do we learn about God’s end-time people? Why are both things important?`

The words written as “very patient” in Revelation 14:12 (NIrV) come from the Greek word “hupomone.” By God’s mercy, His people will be patient when Satan attacks them. God’s people will be obedient. They will choose to die before they will disobey God. So, God will have an end-time people who are loyal to Him.

God’s people will show that they worship God (Revelation 14:7) by refusing to worship the sea-animal power (Revelation 14:9). God’s people will keep His commandments and the faith that comes from Jesus (Revelation 14:12). The final war in the end times will be about worship. The special test in the end times will be about the Sabbath.

`Read Romans 8:1–4; Ephesians 2:8–10; and Colos-sians 1:29. What do these verses teach us about living by faith? What happens when we live by faith?`

When we have faith, God gives us His mercy and loving favor. God’s mercy changes our lives. God’s loyal followers will have faith “in” Jesus. At the same time, God’s people also will have the faith “of” Jesus. How are the two types of faith different? What is the faith “in” Jesus? Faith “in” Jesus means our belief in Him. We accept Him as our Savior. Faith “of” Jesus means that by faith we accept Jesus’ holy life as our own. We will obey Jesus, the same as Jesus obeyed God and died for us on the cross.