---
title: 'The War Between Good And Evil'
date: 05/06/2023
---

`Read Matthew 27:45–50. What do these verses teach us about Jesus’ experience on the cross? These verses tell us that Jesus cried out to God: Why did you leave Me alone? Why did Jesus ask His Father this question? Did Jesus really believe He was alone? How does this experience help us understand what it means to have the faith “of” Jesus?`

Jesus hung on the cross. Darkness was all around Him. Jesus accepted our guilt, shame, and the punishment for our sins. At the time, Jesus couldn’t feel the Father’s love for Him. Jesus depended on His connection with God His whole life. God’s love helped Jesus get ready for the worst times, including the cross. The Savior trusted God when everything around Him made Him feel that He should doubt. When it looked as if everyone had left Jesus, did He give up? No, He continued to trust in God.

“Darkness was everywhere. It looked as if God had left Jesus forever. Jesus had accepted the worst of human suffering and pain. In those awful hours, Jesus depended on proof of His Father’s love. . . . By faith, Jesus won.”—Ellen G. White, Christ Triumphant, page 277, adapted.

The faith that Jesus had is a faith so deep and trusting. No demons on earth can destroy it. No bad experience can destroy this faith. When we have this faith, we will trust what we can’t see. We will believe what we can’t understand. We will hold on to God when there is little to hold on to. The faith that Jesus had is a gift that we get from God by faith. This faith will help us in the terrible times ahead. This faith helps us to worship Jesus as our All-Powerful God. This faith helps us stay patient when the sea animal’s mark is made a law and everyone on earth is forced to obey it.

At the same time, this gift of faith takes time to grow. God’s people learn how to live by faith, day by day, now. We show our faith in good times and in bad times. We show our faith when we think God is near and when we think God is far away. The Bible says, “ ‘the one who is right with God will live by faith’ ” (Galatians 3:11, NIrV; also read Habakkuk 2:4). The time to get ready is now. Every test and experience in our lives can make our faith grow stronger.

`Think of a hard time in your life. How did you keep your faith in God?`