---
title: 'When The Final Test Comes'
date: 06/06/2023
---

The special message in Revelation 13 is about the sea-animal

power and its mark. Revelation 13 shows us there will be terrible times ahead. God’s people won’t be allowed to buy or sell without the mark. They will be hurt and attacked. In the end, a law will be made to kill them. In those awful times ahead, God will help His people. So, “God’s people need to be very patient. They are the ones who obey God’s commands. And they remain [stay] faithful [have the faith and holy life that belongs] to Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, NIrV). One of those commandments, of course, is the fourth commandment: the seventh-day Sabbath.

Revelation 13 shows us the worst that Satan will do to God’s people in his evil war against God. What is the first part of Satan’s plan in his war? Tricks and lies, of course. Revelation 13 shows us a time in the near future when Satan will work with a religious kingdom on earth. This kingdom is named the sea animal. Together, Satan and the sea animal will force people to do what they want.

Religious attacks are nothing new. Cain killed Abel for worshiping the way that God told them to worship (Genesis 4:1–8). Jesus warned that more attacks against His followers were coming. These attacks will happen until the end of time: “ ‘The time will come when anyone who kills you will think he is helping God’ ” (John 16:2, NLV; also read Matthew 10:22; 1 Peter 4:12).

The sea-animal power will force everyone to get a mark. Everyone will be forced to accept the sea animal’s teachings and worship the way it says we must worship.

`What will happen to God’s end-time people in the final test? Read Revelation 13:15–17 for the answer.`

Revelation 13:15–17 tells us about Satan’s final attack on God’s people. Satan will start with money. No one will be allowed to buy or sell without the mark. When this rule becomes a law, most people will go along with it. Anyone who refuses to accept the mark will be told that they will be killed.

Satan gets Christians ready to accept the mark when the final test comes. How does Satan do that? Satan gets people to do things they know are wrong now and to go against Bible truth. God’s love will make His people strong and keep us safe during the terrible times that are coming.