---
title: 'The Ones Who Follow The Lamb'
date: 07/06/2023
---

`Revelation 13 talks about two animals. These animals are word pictures for kingdoms and powers on the earth. Where does the first animal come from? Who gives this animal its kingdom? Read Revelation 13:1, 2 for the answer.`

The first animal in Revelation 13 gets its kingdom from the dragon. Revelation 12:9 and Revelation 20:2 show us that the dragon is Satan. Satan is sneaky. He uses kingdoms and leaders on earth to do his work. Revelation 12:3–5 says that the “dragon” will try to destroy the “male Child” as soon as He is born. This “male Child” (NKJV) later is saved by God and taken to heaven and God’s throne. Jesus is the “male Child.” Satan uses King Herod and the kingdom of Rome to try to destroy Jesus. At the end of Jesus’ life, a Roman leader named Pilate sent Jesus to the cross to die. A Roman soldier nailed Jesus to the cross. Another Roman soldier stabbed Jesus with a spear. Roman soldiers guarded Jesus’ grave. Revelation 13:2 shows us that Satan, the dragon, will work with the kingdom of Rome to do his work. That is why Satan makes the Roman kingdom powerful.

“The dragon is a word picture for Satan. But the dragon also is a word picture for the kingdom of Rome. . . . The religious kingdom that comes after the kingdom of Rome is the Roman Catholic Church. Satan makes this religious government very powerful.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, page 817, adapted.

`Read Revelation 13:3 and Revelation 14:4. Compare the two verses. How is what happens in Revelation 13:3 different from what happens in Revelation 14:4?`

In Revelation 13:3, almost everyone on earth follows the sea animal. But in Revelation 14:4, we read that God will have a people who follow the Lamb, Jesus. As always, there are only two sides in the worldwide war between good and evil. There is Jesus’ side. And Satan’s. We must choose one side or the other. If we don’t choose Jesus, we choose Satan’s side, even if we don’t think we do that.

`Jesus said, “ ‘All people will hate you because you follow me. But the person who continues strong until the end will be saved’ ” (Matthew 10:22, ICB). How do we stay strong until the end?`