---
title: 'Jesus: The One Who Goes To God For Us'
date: 08/06/2023
---

`Read Revelation 13:4, 5. What special things do we learn about the sea animal in these verses that help us understand who this power is?`

The first animal in Revelation 13 is a religious power. This government comes from the old-time kingdom of Rome and grows to become a worldwide religion during the Middle Ages. Revelation 13:5 shows us that this religious power tries to act the same as God. This religious kingdom brags that it is the same as God.

`Read Luke 5:18–26 and John 10:33. These verses talk about a sin that has two parts. What is this sin, and what are its two parts?`

The Jewish religious leaders accused Jesus of acting the same as God. Their words were not fair, because Jesus is God. Jesus tells Philip, “ ‘Philip, I have been with you for a long time. So you should know me. Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father too. So why do you say, “Show us the Father”?’ ” (John 14:9, ERV). As God, Jesus can do everything God the Father does. So, Jesus can forgive sins.

1 Timothy 2:5 teaches us that there is only one Person who can go to God for us and get help. That Person is Jesus Christ. But the Roman Catholic Church teaches something different. They teach that their human spiritual leaders can go to God for us sinners. But that idea is not correct. Their human spiritual leaders are sinners, too. So, none of them can be our helper because they also need help! Anyone who tries to replace Jesus and His work for us in heaven is guilty of a terrible sin. No one can replace Jesus or the work He does for us. No human can say that he is God on earth. But that’s what the Roman Catholic Church says. Read these two quotes from Catholic leaders about the pope. The pope is the top leader of the Roman Catholic Church. “The pope is so mighty and excellent. he is not a man. . . . He is the same as Godod on earth.”—Lucius Ferraris, “Papa,” article 2 in his Prompta Bibliotheca (1763), volume 6, pages 25–29, adapted.

Pope Leo XIII bragged: “We popes are as powerful as God Himself. We have His job on this earth.”—The Great Encyclical Letters of Pope Leo XIII (New York: Benzinger, 1903), page 193, adapted.