---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 09/06/2023
---

“The worldwide war between God and Satan started in heaven. From the beginning of this war, Satan’s plan was to throw out God’s law. That is why Satan started his war against Jesus. Jesus is the One who made us. Satan was thrown out of heaven. But he continued his war against God’s law on this earth. What is Satan’s plan on this earth? Satan tries to trick people. He leads them to sin against God’s law. Some people obey Satan. They throw out God’s law. Other people reject one or two commandments. Both choices lead to the same thing. . . . Satan replaces Bible truth with his lies. In this way, his false teachings have become part of the faith of many people who say they believe in the Bible. The final fight between Bible truth and Satan’s lies will be the end of Satan’s long war against God’s law. We are now starting this final war. This war is about choosing to obey the laws and rules of men or the law of God. We must make a choice. What will it be? Will we obey the religion that the Bible teaches? Or will we follow the lies and false teachings of humans?”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 582, adapted.

As we saw, our Sabbath worship celebrates Jesus, the One who made us. Jesus says the Sabbath is very important. He names Himself the Lord of the Sabbath (Matthew 12:8; Mark 2:28; Luke 6:5). The Sabbath helps us remember who we are as humans. The Sabbath shows us that every person has worth. The Sabbath helps us understand that God made us. So, we should worship God and obey Him. That’s why Satan hates the Sabbath so much. The Sabbath connects us with the God who made us. The Sabbath will be the important test in the end times.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What reasons does the sea animal give for why it has so much control and power? Can we have these same thoughts and feelings about ourselves without knowing it? If yes, in what ways can we be guilty of feeling this same way?`

`Some people say that Satan is a joke. They don’t believe he is real. They also say that educated people are too smart to believe in this silly idea about a devil. How do you answer people who say that Satan is just make-believe? What reasons can you give them for your answer? What Bible truth can you share with them in your explanation?`