---
title:  Definition of Terms
date:  08/10/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Corinthians 15**

**Definition of Terms**

In this lesson we will study the meaning of two cognate words in different languages, the Hebrew word _Sheol_ and the Greek word _Hades_. The word _Hades_ was common in the Greek world and appears eleven times in the NT. However, the meaning of the word in the NT is not necessarily the same as in the Greek world. In other words, we cannot determine the meaning of the word _Hades_ in the NT by how Greek philosophers such as Plato and Socrates used it. We must determine its meaning by the cognate OT Hebrew word _Sheol_.

_Sheol_ has been translated in various ways: grave, hell, pit. The cognate Greek word _Hades_ appears eleven times in the NT, and only once (in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus) does it refer to a _place_ of burning. The translation of the word is confusing where it is rendered as grave, hell, depths, and _Hades_. In the lone exception, the apostle Paul wrote that the righteous would come forth from _Hades_ at the resurrection (1 Cor. 15:55). Clearly, the translators understood that it would be absurd for the righteous to come forth from hell at the resurrection! So we are left with the question, what is the proper meaning of _Hades_?

#### inScribe

Read 1 Corinthians 15 from the translation of your choice. Write out 1 Corinthians 15:51–55. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `