---
title:  Sheol and Hades
date:  09/10/2022
---

#### inGest

How do we know that the word _Hades_ is the Greek cognate of the Hebrew word _Sheol_? The answer is that the NT paraphrases or quotes OT verses and replaces the word Sheol with _Hades_. For example, Paul paraphrased Hosea 13:14 (in 1 Cor. 15:55) and replaced _Sheol_ with _Hades_:

* Hosea 13:14: “O Death, I will be your plagues! O _Grave_ [_Sheol_], I will be your destruction!”
* 1 Corinthians 15:55: “O _Death_, where is your sting? O _Hades_, where is your victory?”

The book of Acts provides another example. On the Day of Pentecost, Peter quoted Psalm 16:10 (in Acts 2:27, 31) and also replaced the word _Sheol_ with _Hades_:

* Psalm 16:10: “For You will not leave my soul in _Sheol_, nor      will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption.”
* Acts 2:27: “For You will not leave my soul in _Hades_, nor will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption.”

In this synonymous parallelism, the word _soul_ in the first line is parallel to “Holy One” in the second and the word _Hades_ in the first is parallel to the word _corruption_ in the second. One cannot miss the point that the soul is the Holy One (not a part of the Holy One) and Sheol is a place of corruption and decay, not burning!

We find a prime example of the proper meaning of _Hades_ in the RSV translation of Matthew 16:18: “And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the powers of _death_ shall not prevail against it.” _Hades_ is a place of death, not burning!

The KJV and NKJV translate the word _Hades_ in Matthew 16:18 as “hell.” However, other versions transliterate the word as the “gates of _hades_” (NIV) and still others translate _Hades_ as “death itself” (CEV), “the power of death” (NCV), and “not even death” (GNT). The Complete Jewish Bible replaces the expression “the gates of Hades” with the Hebrew, “the gates of _Sheol_,” which provides further evidence that in Jewish thinking, _Hades_ is a cognate of Sheol. The idea that _Sheol_ and death are enclosed by gates that keep the dead locked in finds its roots in the OT (Isa. 38:10; Ps. 107:18).

The immediately succeeding context of Matthew 16:18 explains why the gates of _Hades_ and death would not prevail against the church. They will not, because they did not prevail against Jesus! (Matt. 16:21). He broke the fetters of death and the grave on the third day. The word _Hades_ in Matthew 16:18 could easily have been translated “grave” in the KJV and NKJV. Death would not be able to keep Jesus or His church in _Hades_ because He is the resurrection and the life!

**Memorize your favorite verse in 1 Corinthians 15. Write
it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`How does clarity on this word study help you understand passages like Matthew 16:18?`

`How could you explain this to someone else with clearness and simplicity?`