---
title:  Dark and Silent
date:  10/10/2022
---

#### inTerpret

The Bible describes _Sheol/Hades_ as a dark and silent place. It is difficult to conceive of any place that is darker or more silent than being six feet under! Thus, Psalm 115:17 tells us that “the dead do not praise the Lord, nor any who go down into _silence_” Job described the grave in 17:13, 14 as a place of darkness and corruption, where the worms do their work.

The Bible portrays _Sheol/Hades_ as a prison house with bars (Isa. 38:10; Ps. 107:18; Matt. 16:18). It is not a place of torture and burning but rather of silence and darkness, where the dead know nothing (Eccl. 9:5, 10). Jesus taught that the dead are in their graves (John 5:28, 29) and will remain there until the resurrection. Those who are in the grave are sleeping and unconscious of everything that transpires around them (Dan. 12:2; Ps. 13:3; Job 14:12; John 11:11; Acts 7:60; 1 Cor. 15:51; 1 Thess. 4:13, 14; Rev. 14:13).

Job 7:9, 10 uses the metaphor of a vanishing cloud to portray those who go down to _Sheol_: “As the cloud disappears and vanishes away, so he who goes down to the _grave_ does not come up. He shall never return to his house, nor shall his place know him anymore” (emphasis supplied). The faithful dead are not in heaven praising the Lord, for the Psalmist wrote that in death there is no remembrance of God and in _Sheol_ no one will give Him thanks (Ps. 6:5). The gospel prophet Isaiah assures us that _Sheol_ cannot thank the Lord and death cannot praise Him, and those who go down to the pit cannot hope in His truth. Only the living can praise the Lord (Isa. 38:18, 19). Job longed to go to _Sheol_, where his sufferings would cease (Job 14:13). If _Sheol_ was a place of burning and torture, why would Job want to go there?

Many are terrified at the prospect of death. They wonder what will happen the moment they draw their last breath. We can be certain of one thing. Some die in hope and some in despair. If Jesus had not resurrected, everyone would be doomed to eternal darkness and silence. However, the Bible has great news—the dead in Christ will rise from the grave immortal and incorruptible. Because Jesus lives, those who are in Christ will live also. “For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins! Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. But now Christ is risen from the dead, and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep” (1 Cor. 15:16–20).

`What questions emerge after studying this week’s passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does the elucidation of the afterlife change people’s perspectives on religion, spirituality, and God?`