---
title:  Jesus has the Keys!
date:  12/10/2022
---

#### inVite

The Bible compares _Sheol/Hades_ to a prison house with bars and gates (Ps. 9:13; Isa. 38:10). The first reference to _Hades_ in the book of Revelation uses the prison analogy. Jesus said to John on Patmos: “I am He who lives, and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And I have _the keys_ of _Hades_ and of Death” (Rev. 1:18, emphasis supplied).

Let’s reflect for a few moments on verse 18, where Jesus has the keys of _Hades_ and death. The grave is the prison, the dead are the prisoners, and Satan is the jailer with keys in hand, who does not let his prisoners go free (cf. Isa. 14:17). The good news is that Jesus died, went into the grave, took away the keys from the jailer, and came forth with them in His hand. Because He lives, we will live also (John 14:19).

When the venomous serpents in the wilderness bit the Israelites, God neutralized the venom by raising His own serpent, a symbol of the death of Jesus (John 3:14, 15; 12:31–33). Scientists make antivenin from venom. Likewise, Jesus defeated the venom of death by His death! He went into the grave, took away the keys from Satan, and came out alive! The book of Hebrews explains that by His death, Jesus destroyed Satan, who had the power of death: “Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, He Himself likewise shared in the same, that _through death_ He might destroy him _who had the power of death_, that is, the devil, and _release_ those who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to _bondage_” (Heb. 2:14, 15, emphasis supplied).

As we stated previously (cf. Matt. 16:18), the gates of _Hades_ will not prevail against the church because they did not prevail against Jesus (v. 21). The resurrection of those who died in Christ is dependent on the resurrection of Christ. The book of Revelation describes Jesus as the Firstborn from the dead (Rev. 1:5), not because He was the first to resurrect in time but rather because His resurrection guarantees the resurrection of those who died in Him. The word _firstborn_ is figurative and refers to the preeminence of Jesus’ resurrection (Rom. 8:29; Col. 1:15, 18). His resurrection makes all other resurrections possible. Because He lives, the dead in Christ will live also. If we have the Spirit of Christ in our lives, the one who raised Jesus will raise our mortal bodies as well (Rom. 8:11).

If we die in Christ, He will unlock the prison house of death at His coming and take us to heaven. Paul wrote that “the dead in Christ will rise first” (1 Thess. 4:16) and then He will transform this corruptible body into the likeness of His glorious body (Phil. 3:20, 21). Finally, death and _Hades_ will be thrown into the lake of fire and destroyed once and for all (Rev. 20:14, 15; 1 Cor. 15:26).

`Think about the ramifications of having power over death through Christ. What does this truly mean for you?`

`What is Jesus saying to you through the main text?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`