---
title:  A Very Present Help in the Time of Trouble
date:  25/05/2025
---

`Read Psalm 46. What message of hope can we take from this amid the turmoil of life now and what we know is going to come upon the earth in the last days as the great controversy plays out here?`

Psalm 46 appears to touch on a theme that we find in the book of Hebrews: that of something better. Jesus is _better_ than the earthly high priest, His sacrifice is _better_ than all the animal sacrifices, and the heavenly sanctuary is _better_ than the types that existed on earth.

This psalm takes a different approach, however. The author is not taking good things and contrasting them with better things; he is contrasting a world in rebellion—and the terrible consequences it has brought—with promise of the better things that God is planning for us.

Indeed, this psalm is filled with hope and promise that, even amid the desolation and trial and suffering and wars that we face, ultimately we are to “be still, and know that I am God” (Ps. 46:10) and to rest in the assurance that one day all of this is going to end and that God “will be exalted in the earth” (Ps. 46:10).

Notice, too, what is written here. “Therefore we will not fear, even though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea” (Ps. 46:2, NKJV).

One cannot help but be reminded of the scenes that will take place at the Second Coming: “Then the sky receded as a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its place” (Rev. 6:14, NKJV). And this: “Looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat” (2 Pet. 3:12, NKJV). Our present world, with all its attendant evils, isn’t going to last forever, and what comes afterward promises us something that our minds now can barely fathom. For now, though, we just need to hold on, persevering in faith and clinging to the revelation of God that we have, especially in Jesus on the cross.

`However bad things are in this world (and we know they are going to get worse), what hope should you draw from your knowledge of the goodness, power, and character of God (think: the Cross)?	______________________________________________________`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In all who are under the training of God is to be revealed a life that is not in harmony with the world, its customs, or its practices; and everyone needs to have a personal experience in obtaining a knowledge of the will of God. We must individually hear Him speaking to the heart. When every other voice is hushed, and in quietness we wait before Him, the silence of the soul makes more distinct the voice of God. He bids us, “Be still, and know that I am God.” Psalm 46:10. Here alone can true rest be found. And this is the effectual preparation for all who labor for God. Amid the hurrying throng, and the strain of life’s intense activities, the soul that is thus refreshed will be surrounded with an atmosphere of light and peace. The life will breathe out fragrance, and will reveal a divine power that will reach men’s hearts.—The Desire of Ages, p. 363.

O, let the soul break for the longing it has for God. Exercise the faith that will not lose its hold on God. Let the weary and heavy laden come to Christ. Cry aloud for the Comforter. Let the faint and unbelieving draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to them. Take hold of God with earnest, persevering faith.—Letter 96, 1901, par. 13.

During the life of Jesus on earth, He frequently said to His disciples, “Follow me.” “If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.” [Luke 9:23.] Obstacles will certainly confront us on our way; but we must bravely, uncomplainingly press onward. The Lord is good. He is a present help in time of trouble. If we tell the Lord all our troubles and we believe His Word, He will hear and answer prayer. He invites us to come to Him. “Ask,” He says, “and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.” [Matthew 7:7.] The treasure-house is full. We may draw from it continually. Never will it become exhausted.\
Is the Lord ever wearied with our prayers? No, no. When we importune Him with earnestness of heart, He hears. He will say to us, “Here I am.” [Isaiah 58:9.] We need never be discouraged. If we had to depend upon ourselves to work out the problem of salvation, we should be distrustful of self and be full of trying perplexities. But this burden has not been laid upon us. Hear and understand this most precious invitation given to every human being: “Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke the yoke of restraint, submission, and obedience upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” [Matthew 11:28-30.] Shall we not individually say, “By the grace of God, I will comply with the conditions”?—Letter 14, 1902, par. 13, 14.