---
title:  The Coming Fight
date:   08/06/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Revelation 14:7, 9; John 16:2; Revelation 13:1, 2; The Great Controversy, chapters 35, 36.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘Make them holy for Yourself by [with] the truth. Your Word [the Bible] is truth’ ” (John 17:17, NLV).

What is the mark of the beast? Some people think it is the biochip. The biochip or VeriChip is a new medical invention. It is about the size of a piece of rice. This chip can be put inside a patient. The chip holds information about the patient’s medical history. A doctor can use a special machine to search for the biochip hidden under a patient’s skin. The machine allows the doctor to read the patient’s medical information inside the chip.

Some Christians think the mark of the beast is a bar code, the same as the ones on food cans. Other people think that the mark of the beast is a number on dollar bills that adds up to 666. Some people think the mark of the beast is about the Masons or the Illuminati, which are two secret groups. Other people think the mark of the beast is about the United Nations (UN) and black UN helicopters.

This week, we will look at the coming war over worship. Satan will attack God’s law and His Sabbath. Satan hates the Sabbath because it shows us Jesus, the One who made us. Satan will use no-buy/no-sell laws to try to force us to break the Sabbath. Satan will use our fear of prison or death to break our faith in God. We don’t need to fear. Jesus will help us stay strong during the terrible time that is soon to come on the whole earth.