---
title:  Dangerous Times Ahead
date:   10/06/2024
---

Revelation 13 talks about the mark of the beast. Chapter 13 also tells us about the worst part of Satan’s war against God. Jesus won the fight against Satan at the cross. Satan knows that he has lost. But before God destroys him in the lake of fire, the devil will try to destroy as many people as possible. The first part of Satan’s plan is to get people to believe his lies. When his lies don’t work, Satan forces people to do what he wants. Satan will cause leaders to make a law to kill anyone who refuses to worship the beast or accept its mark.

History shows us that God’s people have suffered for their faith from the beginning of time. Cain killed Abel because he obeyed God’s command. Jesus said that Christians would attack other Christians for their beliefs in the end times.

`Read John 16:2; Matthew 10:22; 2 Timothy 3:12; and 1 Peter 4:12. What happened to Jesus’ followers in New Testament times? How does their experience help us understand what will happen to God’s end-time church?`

Many Christians were tortured for their faith during New Testament times. The Romans hurt the Christians and killed many of them, too. During the Middle Ages, the Roman Catholic Church attacked Christians who obeyed Bible truth. The mark of the beast is Satan’s final blow against God’s people. The mark of the beast will force everyone to believe and worship the same power.

Revelation 13 tells us that the mark of the beast will start with a no-buy/no-sell law. No one can buy or sell without the mark. Anyone who refuses to accept the mark will finally be judged guilty. Then a law will be made that will announce that everyone who refuses the mark must die (Revelation 13:15, 17).

The devil is now getting Christians ready to accept the mark of the beast when the final test comes. Satan tries to get them to disobey God. When everyone on earth looks to be following the beast (Revelation 13:3), the scene changes. Revelation 14:12 shows us a picture of God’s loyal people at this time. God’s people obey Him. While everyone else follows the beast, God’s end-time people “follow the Lamb [Jesus] wherever he goes” (Revelation 14:4, ERV). They win the fight against evil and Satan.