---
title:  Who Is The Beast? Part 1
date:   11/06/2024
---

`Where does the beast come from? Who gives the beast control? Read Revelation 13:1, 2 for the answers.`

The Book of Revelation shows us that the dragon is Satan. Revelation 12:3–5 says the dragon tried to destroy the male Child when it was born. The male Child is Jesus. Satan worked with the Kingdom of Rome to try to destroy Jesus (Matthew 2:16–18). Satan always works behind the scenes with governments and churches to do his dirty work.

What does Revelation teach us about the sea beast? “The dragon gave the beast all of its power [strength] and its throne and great [much] authority [control]” (Revelation 13:2, ERV). When did this verse happen in history? When Constantine, the King of Rome, moved his capital from Rome to Constantinople in modern Turkey. Constantine’s move left the old throne of the Kings of Rome empty. So, in this way, the Kings of Rome gave the beast (the Roman Catholic Church) its seat, or capital city.

Writer Isaac Backus said that when Constantine moved his kingdom’s capital out of Rome, he made a way for the bishop of Rome to put himself above all men and the King of heaven. Thinker Thomas Hobbes said, “the pope and his government are really part of the old Kingdom of Rome. The pope wears the crown of the old Kings of Rome.”—Leviathan (New York: Oxford University Press, 1996), page 386, adapted. In this quote, the words “wears the crown” is a word picture. It shows us that the pope’s power comes from the Kingdom of Rome. When we study the sea beast in Revelation 13, we learn it is an evil religious power that comes from the Kingdom of Rome (Revelation 13:3, 4). This beast is not a person. It is a powerful church that has substituted human teachings for God’s law and Bible truth.

`Read Revelation 13:1, 6. What important word is used in this verse to help us understand who the beast power is?`

The beast insults God and lies about Him. In John 10:33, Jesus is accused of pretending to be God. In Luke 5:21, He is accused of forgiving sins. These words against Jesus weren’t fair because Jesus is God and can forgive sins. But the Roman Catholic Church has two teachings that insult God: (1) the church says its religious leaders can forgive sins. And (2) the pope says he is God on earth.