---
title:  Who Is The Beast? Part 2
date:   12/06/2024
---

`Read Revelation 13:5. What does this verse tell us about the sea beast?`

The beast was allowed to control both governments and religion for 42 months. In Lesson 4, we learned about the special rule God gave us for understanding time messages from the Bible. One day in a time message equals one real year (Numbers 14:34; Ezekiel 4:6). When we use this rule for the 42 months, we also must remember that a Hebrew month has only 30 days. So, 42 Hebrew months are the same as 1,260 days or real years.

The popes were very powerful from A.D. 538 to A.D. 1798. Napoleon’s general, Berthier, made the pope a prisoner in A.D. 1798. When that happened, the 42 months or 1,260 years ended, and the time message in Revelation 13 happened just as the Bible said: “Anyone who puts people in prison will go to prison” (Revelation 13:10, WE). When Berthier put the pope in prison, this action hurt the Catholic Church badly. Yes, the beast got a “bad cut” when the pope was made a prisoner. But Revelation 13:12 promises us that “the bad cut” (NLV) will be healed. The pope’s control will be worldwide in the future.

This warning about the future is happening in front of our eyes. Today, leaders all over the earth welcome the pope to their countries. They also visit him regularly at his headquarters in the Vatican City. Everything is set for the pope to become the only religious leader on earth who can join people together. On June 6, 2012, more than 15,000 people came to Saint Peter’s Square in Rome to hear Pope Benedict the 16th’s sermon. The pope announced: “Sunday is the day of the Lord and of men and women. On Sunday everyone must spend time with family and with God. When we defend Sunday, we protect human freedom.”—Adapted. The Great Controversy tells us where defending Sunday will lead: “Everyone who honors the Bible Sabbath will be named the enemies of law and peace. Sabbath keepers will be accused of breaking down the rules of good behavior. They will be blamed for God’s anger that He pours on the earth. . . . They will be accused of not being loyal citizens. False pastors will tell their churches that God wants them to obey the government. Commandment keepers will be judged guilty in courts of law and in government halls.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 592, adapted.