---
title:  The Land Beast
date:   13/06/2024
---

`How is the second beast different from the first beast in Revelation 13? Read Revelation 13:11–18 for the answer.`

The first beast comes from the sea. The second beast comes from the earth (Revelation 13:11). The sea is a symbol for “the many peoples, the different races [people groups], nations [countries], and languages” on the earth (Revelation 17:15, ERV). The second beast becomes strong near the end of the time when the first beast is in control (Revelation 13:5). So, the second beast comes to power around A.D. 1798.

Who, then, is the second beast? The United States of America. In A.D. 1776, the United States announced its independence from Great Britain. Then in A.D. 1789, the United States adopted its basic set of laws named the Constitution. In the late 1800s, the United States was honored as one of the most powerful countries on earth.

In the Book of Revelation, John tells us more about the second beast, the United States: “He had two horns like a lamb, but he talked like a dragon” (Revelation 13:11, ERV). In the Bible’s special messages about the future, horns are a word picture for power. The first beast wore crowns on its horns. But the second beast wears no crowns. No crowns means that the second beast is not a kingdom. The two horns are symbols for American freedom. Americans have religious freedom to worship how they want. They also have laws that protect their freedoms as citizens. These two freedoms helped America succeed as a country.

`What change do you see in the second beast? How does it start to talk? Read Revelation 13:11, 12 for the answer.`

America begins its history the same as a gentle, peaceful lamb. But then America starts to talk the same as a dragon. America acts the same as the first beast. America “uses all the power of the first beast and stands with it” (Revelation 13:12, WE). America rejects all its laws of religious freedom. America makes “everyone living on earth worship the first beast” (Revelation 13:12, ICB). Then the United States makes a false god to the first beast. The false god is a symbol for the church and the government joining together. The United States will command everyone to worship this false god.