---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   14/06/2024
---

“God never forces us to obey Him or believe in Him. But Satan always uses rough force to get control of people he can’t trick with his lies. Satan uses fear or pressure to force people to obey him and worship him. How does Satan do these things? He works with both religious leaders and government leaders to make laws. These human laws go against the law of God.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 591, adapted.

“Soon we will suffer terrible things. If we want to make it through this time, we must understand God’s plan. The Bible shows us this plan. We must honor God. But we can honor Him only if we understand His love, His government, and laws. We also must live so that we show we understand all these Bible truths. God’s people must fill their hearts and minds with Bible truth. They will be the only ones who will stand in the last fight between good and evil.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 593, adapted.

“God will have people on the earth who are loyal to Him. They will accept the Bible, and only the Bible, as the rule for all teachings and new ideas. Human ideas, scientific teachings, church decisions, or popular thinking must not be used as proof for any Bible truth. We must not let these things guide our decisions about what we believe. Before we accept any teaching or rule, we must ask people to show us how the Bible supports their idea.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 595, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We know that Jesus is coming back soon. We also know that many bad things are going to happen first. How can we share with people the Bible truth about the future without alarming them?`

`What does our daily life tell us about who or what we worship?`

`How can we help ourselves and other people not to be scared of the things that will happen at the end times? How can we encourage them to trust in God?`

`How does understanding end-time happenings change us or make our lives different today?`