---
title:  Matthew 24 and 25
date:   12/05/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘For false messiahs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect’ ” (Matt. 24:24, NIV).

**“Return” Ready!**: 

**Introduction**: Matthew 25

The date: August 6, 1945.

The time: 8:16 a.m.

The event past: The bombing of Hiroshima.

Hiroshima was reported to be home to more than 280,000 civilians in addition to 43,000 soldiers. As the people went about their daily routine that morning, all were oblivious to the horrible intention of the United States to attack.

As the day began for the unsuspecting Japanese that morning, a single B-29 weather plane carrying an atomic bomb made its deathly blow.

Survivors recall the indescribable experience of the devastation that annihilated their city. For them, it was the “end of the world.” One survivor reportedly said, “All the buildings I could see were on fire.” A Protestant minister exclaimed, “This was God’s judgment on man!” Whatever the response, like Israel of old, they knew not the time of their visitation.

Were the people of this great city prepared for this attack? What could possibly have alerted them against this city’s total destruction? Will it be the same for us as we await the end of the world at the return of Jesus Christ to the earth?

World events are proving to be even more dangerous than the time of these 1945 Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings. The Bible explains that “in the last days perilous times shall come” (2 Tim. 3:1) . . . as if things weren’t bad enough already! It is important, then, that the children of God be prepared for what is to be the biggest shakedown ever. To this end, we look to the One who is Alpha and Omega, the One who knows the beginning from the end: Christ, the key to our preparation.

Jesus expects us to trust His sure Word of prophecy, that we might be ready as we see the day drawing near. If you are to guard yourself against deception, against worldly distractions and false spiritual alarms, you must get into the Word and stay in it daily. The Word of God teaches us how to watch and pray.

The Master is coming! May we live faithfully for Him until that day (Matt. 25:13).

**React**

`1. What lessons can we apply from the parables Jesus shared about His soon return?`

`2. What are you doing to prepare for His second coming?`

`3. How can we exude greater confidence in God’s promises in our daily lives today?`

_Hazel Guthrie, St. Michael, Barbados_