---
title:  Ready or Not
date:   14/05/2018
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 25:1–13

A group of young people was seated in a circle on the airport floor. Each focused intensely on the game of cards in progress as they entertained themselves since their flight had been delayed. With each delay update they became increasingly complacent. Suddenly one young man looked up and exclaimed, “What’s going on here? Where is everybody?” The rest of the group looked up; they realized they were the only persons left in the departure lounge.

They ran to the airline agent to ask for information, and she revealed that she had even called them by name, but they had not responded. “I can’t believe that you were sitting right there with your tickets and passports all along and did not hear the final boarding call. I am sorry, but the flight has already departed.”

“I guess we were just too caught up in the game.”

This true story is a modern parable of the ten virgins and underscores how easy it is for people to become distracted. Are we as young people busy playing with “the world” as opposed to watching and praying (Mark 13:32, 33)?

The advancement of technology has cultivated a life of impatience. Now every delay can be filled with some form of entertainment—entertainment that can become a great distraction from our mission.

In the parable of the ten virgins we learn that individuals handle delay differently. “He told His disciples the story of the ten virgins, by their experience illustrating the experience of the church that lives just before His second coming.

“The two classes of watchers represent the two classes who profess to be waiting for their Lord. They are called virgins because they profess a pure faith.”1

“All had lamps and vessels for oil. For a time there was seen no difference between them. So with the church that lives just before Christ’s second coming.

All have a knowledge of the Scriptures. All have heard the message of Christ’s near approach, and confidently expect His appearing. . . . A time of waiting intervenes, faith is tried; and when the cry is heard . . . many are unready. They have no oil. . . . They are destitute of the Holy Spirit.” 2

**React**

`1. Could it be that many in the church are in the same state of those youth at the airport—too distracted to notice the warning signs of the Second Coming?`

`2. What can you do to ensure that your life is not destitute of the Holy Spirit?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 406.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., p. 408.</sup>

_Anastacia Ferguson-Bansie, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_