---
title:  Prepare for Takeoff!
date:   15/05/2018
---

**Evidence8*: Matt. 7:24–27; 24; 25:1–13

On September 27, 2016, at the International Astronautical Congress in Guadalajara, Mexico, multimillionaire entrepreneur and inventor Elon Musk announced his plans for colonization of the planet Mars. In fear that Earth may one day be uninhabitable, some believe that this development can help preserve human life. To achieve this mission, Musk and his SpaceX company are looking to invest 10 billion dollars into this plan. They are researching to create a unique reusable rocket and capsule, capable of transporting 100 people at a time to the red planet. Although this journey may be fatal, considering the worries and chaotic state of the world, many people are applauding Musk’s grandiose plan to make an alien planet habitable.*

God’s Word is our source of oil.

The earth is a devastating place. Because of sin, hurricanes, earthquakes, wars, diseases, and famines are just a few reasons why many hearts are fearful and faint. But as Seventh-day Adventists, we do not take the same approach that the world does.

In Matthew 24, Jesus warns His disciples how to prepare for His coming. The past and present confirm just how accurate Christ’s predictions are. Therefore, we can trust in God’s not yet fulfilled predictions in our lives. We are not fearful of the future because Jesus encourages us not to be alarmed (verse 6). He knows that the end time will not be simple and requires our focus to be on Him. Instead of worrying about earthly disasters and future persecutions, we should focus on God’s Word and trust that He will prepare us for what must transpire before His coming.

When we hear and do the will of God, we are like the wise man who built his house upon a rock (Matt. 7:24–27). And, therefore, like the five wise virgins, we should constantly keep watch, making sure our vessels remain filled with oil (Matt. 25:1–13). God’s Word is our source of oil. Yes, hard times will come and keeping watch may not be easy, but when we focus on Christ, He will prepare us to meet Him when He returns.

**React**

`1. Many influences and distractions conflict with our Christian beliefs. How can we identify the deceptions that the world presents to us?`

`2. As we await Christ’s return, we can become complacent. How can we ensure that we do not grow weary in our Christian journey?`

<sup>* “Elon Musk Envisions Mars Colony in 8 Years’ Time,” DW, accessed January 1, 2016, http://m.dw.com/en/elon-musk-envisions-mars-colony-in-8-years-time/a-35911138.</sup>

_Karenda Swain, Freeport, Bahamas_