---
title:  Comfort Is the Key! But to Which Door?
date:   16/05/2018
---

**How-to**: Matt. 16:25; 25:1–13

Welcome to the Laodicean period of Earth’s history, when many among us enjoy the comforts of what money can bring! Food, electronics, clothes—we are rich. We have the apps on our phones, different Bible versions, commentaries, YouTube videos—we’re set!


The law of supply and demand teaches that when something is hard to obtain, its price goes up as many desire to possess it; but when something is bountiful, its value decreases and it is often taken for granted. Devotionals, Bible study programs, books, sermons, articles—you name it—all are available to us and in excess. Because of this influx of information, many say that we have no excuse not to get stronger in Christ. Although this is true, we must have learned by now that too much of a good thing can weaken this most important relationship. “How so?” you may ask. Information overload can confuse us or prevent deep study, stunting spiritual growth. Add to this the multiple distractions bombarding our senses everywhere we go. How can we navigate this danger?

First, we must recognize the danger of excess and ask God to simplify our walk with Him. God is creative at communicating what He wants us to do, so we need to be mindful of His Holy Spirit working in us. We should ask Him to guide our reading to the areas of the Bible where we will find the most help and to suggest supplemental literature. When we have received an answer from the Father, we can use this special reading selection, customized just for us, during our quiet time with Him. Quiet time is very crucial for spiritual survival and warfare. It will take discipline, perseverance, and wisdom to navigate through these seemingly calm waters. No matter where we are and what we’re going through, “storing treasure in heaven” will not be easy.

Another important skill to have is that of being consistent. Stick with the program that God has given you. Replace your fears and worries of this world with the words of Jesus and His truth so that His peace will flood your life and you will become fruitful for Him.

**React**

`1. Reflect on your spiritual goals. What would you think God is calling you to do to advance the kingdom of God?`

`2. How serious is meeting this goal to you right now?`

`3. How do you think you can achieve this most important goal?`

_Zelinda Sealy-Scavella, Toronto, Ontario, Canada_