---
title:  Self-Deception — a Dangerous Trend
date:   17/05/2018
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 24:4

Imagine you’re at the office and the fire alarm begins to sound. It’s probably happened before, as most office buildings have fire drills at least once a year. What do you do? Do you say a prayer for the protection of everyone in the building and then head for the door? Or do you snatch up all the things that are important to you before hightailing to the nearest exit? What is our first instinct when there is danger to the things we own? Do we trust that God will always provide, or do we try our hardest to save our things because we don’t know when we will get our next ones?

In the Scripture reference for today, Jesus says, “ ‘ Watch out that no one deceives you ’ ” (NIV). The danger for all of us now is that we sometimes don’t recognize that the one who is deceiving me is me. Remember the story of King David and Uriah? David did a great injustice to Uriah by impregnating his wife and then ensuring his death. When Nathan the prophet told David the parable that depicted what David had done, David became enraged and pronounced death for such an odious man. Nathan’s simple declaration, “ ‘You are the man!’ ” (2 Sam. 12:7) must have left David speechless.

When self becomes our focus, the man Jesus disappears from our view. It doesn’t happen all at once. Slowly, the things of the world become more important. Studying for that university degree takes the place of studying our Bible; dressing in the latest fashion takes the place of girding our loins with righteousness. We get very concerned about becoming a better you. But we forget the man Jesus who knows just who the best you is.

Jesus gave us instructions on how to become the best you ever. You can’t find it in O, The Oprah Magazine, or even in the New You Magazine. No, the instructions about becoming the best you, the person who is preparing to enter God’s everlasting kingdom, are found in the Bible. Jesus, who came to earth to be our living example, is our best life coach.

Jesus was not concerned about Himself. For Jesus, it was never “All About ME, ME, ME,” as a T-shirt I once owned read. Jesus was always saying that He and His Father are One, and He acted the part. We truly must become one with our heavenly Father as we continue on our journey toward salvation.

**Reflect**

`1. Do we honestly find ourselves sometimes more concerned with possessions than people?`

`2. Would we recognize the selfishness in ourselves if someone else didn’t point it out?`

_Jannelle Spencer, Brittons Hill, St. Michael, Barbados_