---
title:  'Your Choice: The Great Hope'
date:   18/05/2018
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 24:6

**Conclude**

Yes, Christ is coming, and though we see in Matthew 24 and 25 the terrible consequences of living without Christ, I’m here to affirm to you that you don’t have to be part of the five foolish virgins. You don’t have to be the man with the one talent, and you don’t have to be the one who does not feed the poor. You have the power to choose otherwise. I know of the destruction; but I am also very much aware of the great hope in Christ Jesus. You and those you touch have hope in Jesus. Be aware of all the tragedy, watch and pray, but also be aware that you have Jesus.

**Consider**

- Starting a YouTube Channel where once a week you share the joys and the beauty of the Second Coming or the life of Christ. Focus on texts that inspire and encourage people to embrace the Great Hope.
- Starting a book club to read books like The Story of Redemption, or The Great Hope by Ellen G. White.
- Starting a prayer group. Meet for 30 minutes to an hour to encourage and uplift and pray for preparation to meet Jesus.
- Having a poetry jam or art exhibit. Invite your friends to compose poetry on the second coming of Christ Jesus or drawings of heaven. Use a theme for each event.
- Holding a musical concert themed “Heaven” or “The Great Hope.” Use readings and poetry, songs, and instrumentals that surround the theme of Christ’s return. The musical concert can tell the story of the birth, life, death, resurrection, and return of Christ.
- Composing Scripture songs on verses that talk about heaven or on promises that encourage people to overcome.
- Going through Matthew 24 and 25 again. On a sheet of paper, make two headings: “Negative End Times” and “Positive End Times.” Investigate and write under each heading all the negative (e.g., wars, rumors of war, five foolish virgins) and then all the positive (e.g., five wise virgins, feed the poor, be not troubled) Make a decision to choose to be in the positive.

**Connect**

1. Job 19:25–27; Isaiah 66:22, 23; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18; Jude 24, 25; Revelation 14:1–5; 22:12–14.

2. Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, chapter 61, “Deliverance of the Saints”; The Great Hope.

_Beverly E. Toppin, Bridgetown, Barbados_