---
title:  Three Persons in the Godhead
date:   02/12/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 14:1–24**

**Three Persons in the Godhead**

There were a wide variety of beliefs regarding the Godhead amongst the Millerite pioneers in the 1840s. William Miller was a Baptist who believed in the Trinity while his close assistant, Joshua Himes, came from the Christian Connection community where most people rejected trinitarian teachings as unscriptural. The question of the Godhead was not seen as a doctrine that needed to be addressed right away as the focus was on the Second Coming and the sanctuary. James White and Joseph Bates, two principal founders of the Seventh-day Adventist church, also came from the Christian Connection background and held similar antitrinitarian views on God’s nature. Many early Adventists believed Jesus was created or begotten and denied the personhood of the Holy Spirit. Prominent pioneers are sometimes quoted today to support a particular belief about the Godhead, but it’s important to remember that there was significant diversity of views on this subject among the first generation of Adventists. It took the church over seventy years of Bible study and prayer to reach a conclusion on this issue. A key facet of Adventist history is our unshakeable commitment to the Bible—the whole Bible. This focus demands that the entire Bible be considered when establishing any new doctrines or teachings.

The 1888 General Conference session brought a fresh perspective on Jesus and the gospel, which naturally resulted in deeper study of Christ’s divine nature. A.T. Jones became an early proponent of Christ’s eternal deity. The book Desire of Ages by Ellen White, published in 1898, made definitive statements regarding both Jesus’ divinity and the Holy Spirit’s personhood. Regarding Christ’s divine nature, Ellen wrote that Christ “announced Himself to be the self-existent one” and “in Christ is life, original, unborrowed, underived” (Desire of Ages [1898], 469, 530). These statements directly contradicted things other pioneers had written about the Father being the only self-existent one. It wasn’t until the 1930s that our church adopted an official stance on this subject. We will see in this week’s study that the Bible clearly shows that there are three Persons in the Godhead, each with different roles and functions, but all working together.

#### inScribe

Write out John 14:1–24 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `