---
title:  Delving Deeper
date:   03/12/2023
---

#### inGest

Our current understanding of the Godhead likely took longer to develop than any other doctrine in the Adventist church. Though we now have a broad view that takes into account the various Bible texts on the subject along with their context, God’s nature will be a topic of serious study and thought throughout eternity (see Job 11:7). God’s greatness is beyond our finite understanding; for us, it’s an inexhaustible topic of exploration.

In the early days of Adventism, the main differences of thought regarding the Godhead revolved around two questions: First, is Jesus God or a created being? Some interpreted the words “only begotten Son” (John 3:16) to mean that Jesus had a beginning and was therefore not eternal. Second, is the Holy Spirit a being and therefore part of the Godhead or is He just a power? One view was that the Holy Spirit referred to God’s power—omnipresent, but not an actual being.

In the 1840s, 50s, and 60s, some well-known and respected pioneers such as James White, Joseph Bates, Uriah Smith, and J.N. Loughborough had beliefs on this subject that were at odds with what we finally settled on as a church. As we’ve noted, our church as a whole developed this belief very slowly, a fact reflected in how some of the pioneers’ beliefs likewise developed and changed over time. Some, such as James White and Joseph Bates, held the beliefs of the churches they had left and therefore had to unlearn what they thought had been truth and learn instead what had been revealed. It’s unfortunately quite easy to take a few texts out of context and form a conclusion that sounds right but doesn’t hold up when every text on the subject is considered. Such was the case with some of the doctrines of the churches the pioneers had left, hence the need for a period of unlearning and relearning.

The first time the Bible mentions God’s plurality is in Genesis 1:26: “Then God said, ‘Let Us make man in Our image.’ ” The words “Us” and “Our” are, of course, plural, indicating that the title of God is attributable to more than one being. The New Testament describes the work of creation being accomplished through a close partnership between Father and Son by saying, “God created all things through Jesus Christ” (Eph. 3:9). The narrative in Genesis specifically notes the presence of the Spirit of God at the beginning of Creation (Gen. 1:2). In the verses describing Creation, we see the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit all working together in harmony for one purpose.

As the heavenly Trio worked together during Creation, so the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit work closely with each other in the work of redemption. John 14 describes all three Persons in the Godhead uniting for the purpose of saving lost humanity. Each Member of the Triune God has slightly different responsibilities, but each contributes to the same goal. Jesus connects heaven to earth by preparing a place in heaven for us (vv. 1–3), revealing the Father to us, and providing access to the Father (vv. 6–11). The Father sent two Helpers to us: Jesus and the Holy Spirit (vv. 16, 26). When Jesus left the disciples and returned to heaven, the Father sent the Holy Spirit to fill the void and provide continued Divine presence.

Because of the Holy Spirit’s presence, the disciples were to enjoy greater advantages in Jesus’ absence than they experienced in His physical presence (John 16:7). Throughout John 14–16, Jesus consistently refers to the Holy Spirit with the personal pronouns He and Him, never as It, highlighting that the Holy Spirit is more than a thing; the Holy Spirit is a distinct Person in the Godhead. Sometimes in these chapters from John, Jesus and the Holy Spirit are described as going in two opposite directions: Jesus is returning to heaven while the Holy Spirit is being sent to earth. This again clearly illustrates that the Holy Spirit is a distinct Person, separate from Jesus.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What can we do to ensure that we study the Bible holistically and not selectively on any given subject?`

`What are the differences between Jesus and the Holy Spirit? What are the similarities?`