---
title:  The Oneness of God
date:   04/12/2023
---

### inTerpret

The Bible clearly states two clear and important aspects of the Godhead: First, the oneness of God is emphasized again and again, in both the Old and New Testaments (Deut. 6:4; Isa. 45:5; Zech. 14:9; Eph 4:4–6). This emphasis highlights the contrast between Israel and their surrounding neighbors—a contrast that exists in a similar way in God’s church today. The oneness of God sets Christianity apart from heathen religions that believe in a pantheon of deities. Second, the Bible is clear on the plurality within the Godhead, using the plural pronoun “Us” several times early on in Scripture (Gen. 1:26; 3:22; 11:7). At first glance, the simultaneous oneness and plurality of God appear to contradict each other, but we can understand how it’s possible for God to be both singular and plural when we grasp how each Member of the Trinity works with the Others.

In verses 7–10, Jesus declares that if we have seen Him, we have seen the Father, meaning He and the Father are so close that to see and hear One is to see and hear the Other. The Godhead is like a lifelong husband and wife who almost seem to know what the other is thinking, yet infinitely more so as they have been together for eternity. The oneness and plurality within marriage is a reflection of the oneness and plurality within the Godhead. Four times the New Testament quotes from Genesis 2:24 that in marriage “the two shall become one flesh” (Matt. 19:5; Mark 10:8; 1 Cor. 6:16; Eph. 5:31). In a healthy home, neither husband nor wife loses their individuality, but they do blend their lives to form a new unit. So the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are each a distinct personality and yet are joined together as one. “There are three living persons of the heavenly trio; in the name of these three great powers—the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit—those who receive Christ by living faith are baptized, and these powers will co-operate with the obedient subjects of heaven in their efforts to live the new life in Christ” (Evangelism [1946], 615). People who deny three living Persons in the heavenly Trio miss the full beauty of God’s nature. It’s only in the plurality of God that we can see the extent of His selfless nature. No Person in the Godhead exists to serve Himself. Each is focused on serving the Other.

The closeness between Jesus and the Father described in John 14:7–10 is the same kind of intimacy Jesus wants His followers to have with Himself and the Holy Spirit (vv. 17, 18). The Holy Spirit is sent to continue the work Jesus started. “The Holy Spirit is the Comforter, in Christ's name. He personifies Christ, yet is a distinct personality” (Manuscript Releases, vol. 20 [1993], 324). Much like the Father and Son, the Holy Spirit has various titles in the Bible. Verse 17 describes Him as the Spirit of Truth, a name that appears again in John 15:26 and 16:13. This title clearly emphasizes the Holy Spirit’s role in teaching, convicting, and reminding people of the truth. As Jesus came to bring truth (John 1:14), so the Spirit is promised to continue in the ministry of truth.

Jesus also wants His followers to experience closeness with the Father. Verse 23 promises the Father’s special attention toward those who reciprocate His love. He desires to dwell with us and make His home with us. That a holy God desires to tabernacle with sinful mortals like us will be our theme of study and praise for all eternity!

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are some ways we can interact with each Member of the Godhead?`