---
title:  The Relationships of the Godhead
date:   06/12/2023
---

### inVite

The end of John 13 adds depth to chapter 14. Jesus had just predicted Peter’s triple denial before saying, “Let not your heart be troubled.... I go to prepare a place for you... that where I am, there you may be also” (14:1–3). While Jesus said this directly to Peter, it’s Thomas who then asked where Jesus was going and how he and the others could know the way (v. 5). Jesus then proceeded to explain the relationship between Him and the Father and promised that another Helper would come: the Holy Spirit.

Jesus went from predicting Peter’s denial to promising eternity to offering us a deep abiding relationship with Him, all of which reveal several key aspects of His work as our Savior. Jesus is patient and desires to save us, and yet He will lovingly point out our sins and errors. He didn’t avoid the truth even when it was painful, pointing out to Peter his true spiritual condition, but He also didn’t leave him without hope, for He gave the promise of eternity in heaven. Then, in answer to Thomas’ and Philip’s relatively simple questions, Jesus patiently explained the relationship of the Godhead to His disciples—who didn’t seem to understand it despite all the time they had spent with Christ. Jesus expressed clearly that He and His Father have a very intimate relationship, saying, “He who has seen Me has seen the Father” (14:9). Jesus’ words and actions directly reflect the Father, who dwells in Him (vv. 10, 11). Through His relationship with the Father, Jesus embodies and demonstrates how we as His followers can also have a close connection with God.

In this passage, Jesus doesn’t just leave His disciples with promises of the future mansion in heaven; He provides something for here and now to enable them to get there: the Holy Spirit. Truly great leaders empower their proteges to go farther than themselves. Jesus followed this pattern by declaring that His disciples, empowered by prayer, obedience, and the Spirit, would do greater works than He did (v. 12). He wanted them to reach more people than He had; He didn’t want to limit their success and remain on top like so many human leaders do. In leaving, Jesus made room for the power of the Holy Spirit to enable His disciples to surpass His earthly ministry. Through His disciples, the work He began would continue and expand.

Jesus was not just emptying Himself and sharing His rewards and success with others, He was sharing His gifts with disciples who certainly did not deserve them. Peter was about to deny Jesus three times. Thomas already doubted Him. None of them were ready for what was coming and none were worthy of the responsibility or success Jesus was setting up for them, yet Jesus chose unworthy, unreliable, unremarkable disciples as the ones who would accomplish even greater works than those of Christ Himself. Jesus’ generosity toward weak, fallen disciples is beyond measure and beyond comprehension. It should give us great hope that even though we are also broken people, Jesus will still do mighty works through humble followers who cooperate with Him.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what other instances do we see Jesus confident in His identity and the role He plays in the Godhead?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`