---
title:  A Global Message
date:   16/12/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 14:6–12**

**A Global Message**

Out of the 235 countries recognized by the United Nations today, the Seventh-day Adventist church has a presence in 218. That the Seventh-day Adventist church is such a widespread global denomination shows how seriously we have taken our mandate to take the gospel “to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6). Seeing our work established in over 90 percent of the world’s countries is somewhat deceptive, however, because even in countries where our church is present, there are billions of unreached people who have never heard the name of Jesus, let alone the Adventist message. The global mission of the Adventist church has been driven by a unique message that no other church in the world preaches.

Distilled down to one theme, the Adventist message is summarized in the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14:6–12. It has the eternal gospel as its foundation. The first angel announces that the hour of God’s judgment has arrived, as understood through a study of the sanctuary and the 2,300-day prophecy. The second angel exposes the sins of Babylon. The third angel warns people to avoid the mark of the beast and invites people to keep God’s commandments and have the faith of Jesus. The third angel’s message denies the right of any nation to force worship contrary to God’s commandments. Religious liberty is a core principle that undergirds the warning against receiving the mark of the beast. The messages of Revelation 14 bring clarity to the doctrine of death (v. 13) and are given in the context of preparing people for the Second Coming (v. 14). Each of these topics, including the law, Sabbath, sanctuary, judgment, death, the Second Coming, and religious liberty were all properly understood and officially adopted in the years following 1844.

An overview of the three angels’ messages was first printed in the tract A Word to the Little Flock, written by Joseph Bates and the Whites in 1846. Since then, our understanding of these important verses has deepened, but not changed. The three angels’ messages summarize Revelation’s final warning and last invitation, which is destined to go to every man, woman, and child before Jesus returns. These messages provide a framework to understand the mission and message of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. This week’s study will unpack their meaning and significance.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 14:6–12 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `