---
title:  An Appeal to Prepare
date:   17/12/2023
---

#### inGest

The three angels’ messages, which early Adventists began to study in earnest in the early 1840s, are the last messages that will be shared with the whole world before Christ comes. The first angel of Revelation 14 commands us to fear God and worship Him because the hour of His judgment has arrived (vv. 6, 7). The three angels’ messages as a whole lead to verse 14, which depicts Jesus’ second coming in the clouds of heaven. Thus we conclude that the purpose of these messages is to prepare people for that long-awaited event.

These messages have always had a profound impact wherever they were preached. With a clear view of God’s approaching judgments against the world, early Advent preachers appealed to their audiences to urgently prepare for Christ’s soon return. The Holy Spirit stirred many people to turn their hearts toward God through these appeals. Based on their interpretation of the 2,300-day prophecy from Daniel 8:14, the early Millerite-Adventists calculated that Jesus would appear in the clouds of heaven to deliver His people and bring judgment against the wicked in the spring of 1844. When He didn’t appear at the expected time, they kept studying the Bible and concluded that He would come that autumn, eventually settling on October 22, 1844 as the day of their Lord’s return.

At the time, there were no thoughts of establishing a new church; it was simply a multi-denominational revival movement. By 1844, the relationship between the Advent believers and the established churches had become very tense. Churches that had happily hosted Advent preachers for years began closing their doors to those same preachers. Many Adventists were being disfellowshipped from the churches they had belonged to for years. As a result Adventists felt compelled to do something they didn’t want to do; they began separating themselves from the established churches. When they were no longer welcome, they realized it was time to step out. Studying the second angel’s message in Revelation 14:8, they believed that many of the churches were spiritually fallen and that they could no longer be at home within them. In the summer of 1844, about 50,000 believers left their churches. The months and weeks leading up to October 22 produced an experience of unity, confession, humility, separation, and deep brotherly love amongst those who accepted the Advent faith. Their highest hopes were bitterly disappointed when October 22 came and went. Most fell away or set new dates. Through deeper Bible study, only a small handful of people concluded that the mistake lay in misinterpreting the event. Out of the ashes of this stinging disappointment, the three angels’ messages would go on to be proclaimed with great strength and clarity.

Satan’s agenda in the final conflict is seen in Revelation 13 while God’s message is revealed in chapter 14. The global mission in Revelation 14:6 corresponds with the worldwide directive given in Revelation 10:11. Chapter 10 portrays the bitter disappointment God’s people endured, chapter 12 describes the characteristics of God’s end-time, commandment-keeping church, and chapter 14 outlines the message that this people will spread—a message that you and I need to understand and share with the world. The three angels’ messages are even more needed today than it was in the 1840s. May we study, understand, live, and proclaim the truths designed to prepare us for Jesus’ soon return.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How can you show from Revelation 14 what the purpose of the three angels’ messages is?`

`What was the impact of preaching the judgment hour message leading up to 1844?`