---
title:  inTerpret
date:   18/12/2023
---

### inTerpret

An Everlasting Gospel

The gospel does not change from generation to generation; though our understanding of it may deepen over time, every generation is saved by the same gospel. Because Revelation 14:6 declares the gospel to be “everlasting,” we can infer that as long as there are people to be saved, it will continue to be preached. The three angels’ messages are the gospel contextualized for people living at the end of the world. With the everlasting gospel as the foundation of the entire message, Verse 7 starts with a call to “fear God and give glory to Him.” The Greek word translated here as fear means to show reverence; it does not refer to being afraid. Ecclesiastes 12:13 links the phrase “fear God” with keeping His commandments, so Revelation 14:7 is a call to revere and obey God. The second part of the phrase, “give glory to Him,” refers to honoring Him in the way we live our lives. 1 Corinthians 10:31 affirms this, instructing us to do everything for God’s glory, regardless of how small it seems to be.

Verse 7 continues by declaring that the hour of judgment has arrived, a fact that God’s end-time church is expected to tell the world. This part of the message began to be preached prior to 1844 but wasn’t fully understood until after the Great Disappointment. The next part of verse 7 calls us to worship the Creator of heaven and earth, and the wording is almost a direct quotation from Exodus 20:11, which is part of the fourth commandment regarding the Sabbath. After the Millerites had declared the judgment hour, the next major truth, discovered around 1846, was the Sabbath. This truth was used as a rallying cry to gather the believers together again after the Great Disappointment scattered them.

Verse 8 warns that Babylon has fallen. This proclamation was applicable in the summer of 1844, but so much more as time progresses, and false religion is exposed for portraying an inaccurate picture of God’s character. The name Babylon is derived from the word “babel” and refers to a state of confusion. The verse declares that all the nations of the earth have become intoxicated by Babylon’s wine. Drunkards who are heavily intoxicated become so confused they cannot walk or talk correctly. The inhabitants of the world have become intoxicated by the wine of Babylon, meaning they have become morally deranged and spiritually confused by Babylon’s false doctrines. When the teachings of apostate churches do not harmonize with the Bible, they must be rejected.

Verses 9–11 warn the world against receiving the mark of the beast since those who do will face the full wrath of God. God’s wrath has been mingled with mercy every other time He’s poured it out on mankind, but not this time. Revelation 15:1 indicates that this wrath is realized in the seven last plagues. God doesn’t want us to receive these judgments; this is a merciful appeal as it gives us a chance to avoid what’s coming.

Verse 12 ends by drawing attention to “the patience of the saints.” Despite the attacks from the beast power (See Rev. 13:11–18), this group remains steadfast and endures the persecution. God’s people have two characteristics: they will keep God’s commandments (in contrast to those in verses 9–11), and they will have the faith of Jesus. It is only by trusting God completely that His people do not conform to the demands of the world.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we preach about topics such as Babylon and the mark of the beast without immediately driver people away?`