---
title:  The Call to Worship the Creator
date:   20/12/2023
---

### inVite

There is a recurring debate in Christian circles about prioritizing the gospel message and doctrinal truth. Some argue that we need to unite around the gospel and not focus on doctrine, but Jesus’ mission included teaching doctrine (John 7:16). Those who follow Christ share in that same mission. Perhaps this dispute is best answered by Revelation 14:6–12, which opens with an angel carrying the everlasting gospel and is followed by verses that explain the gospel through doctrinal truths. The everlasting gospel is inextricably linked to doctrinal truth in this passage. These verses include a call to put God first—to worship Him as the Creator, which in some ways is the central point of the whole gospel message. A recurring theme in chapters 13 and 14 is worship, and God created us to worship Him. This message calls us back to the one true Creator and reminds us that God made literally everything. Knowing God as our Creator is the basis of true worship. When John wrote in his gospel that all things were created through Jesus (John 1:1–3), he placed Jesus in His rightful position as One who is worthy of our worship.

The second angel calls us to separate ourselves from all false systems of worship (Rev. 14:8; 18:1–4), an increasingly challenging feat in the pluralistic societies in which we live. Babylon is depicted as a harlot woman in Revelation 17:5, meaning it symbolizes an apostate church or system of churches. The Bible consistently uses unfaithful women to represent God’s people when they are unfaithful to Him (Jer. 3:20; Hos. 1:2; 2 Cor. 11:2–4). The message of the second angel means some churches are fallen, and God is calling His people out of them. The third angel’s message includes a call to be loyal to God above all else. The choice is between fearing God or fearing man. When the third angel concludes their message, we’re given a picture of a group of people who wait patiently for Jesus’ return while keeping the commandments and the faith of Jesus. All who internalize and live the three angels’ messages are in this group.

Each aspect of this message is interconnected; each is essential to understanding the others. We cannot pick and choose which parts to study and teach and which to leave behind. Jesus is as much a part of the warning against Babylon in the second angel’s message as He is a part of the invitation to worship our Creator in the first angel’s message. This fusion of qualities clearly shows God’s duality—that justice and mercy have met and blended in our God. When we separate the gospel from the more societally charged doctrines, we strip Christ of part of His identity. We are called to tell the world who Jesus is, and we do this in part through the teachings in the Bible, each of which reveal a little about His character. To show the entirety of who He is, we must not neglect the aspects that may be difficult. The world needs the everlasting gospel undiluted and unchanged.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What are some ways our daily lives are impacted by only focusing on God’s love and not remembering His justice? `

`Are there certain aspects of the three angels’ messages that you believe we do not understand or teach enough? If so, which areas do you think are underemphasized?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`