---
title: The Half Loaf of Bread
date: 25/02/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Kings 17:8–16**

**The Half Loaf of Bread**

Maya approached Valentina with a loaf of white bread after the worship service. “Valya, please take this,” she said, holding out the loaf. Valentina, who was 40 years old, looked at the bread hungrily. It was 1993. She hadn’t eaten a crumb in more than six months because of a food shortage caused by an armed conflict in the country of Georgia.

“Take this, please,” Maya, five years older, said again, still offering the bread. “This is from me to you.” Valentina slowly shook her head. “I can’t take this from you,” she said. “You need it just as badly as we do.” Maya began to cry.

“Please, take this,” she said. “You walked 15 kilometers [nine miles] to help us. This is a gift that I want to give you, but you are refusing to accept it.”

“OK,” Valentina said, finally relenting. “But let’s cut the bread in half. You take half, and I’ll take half.”

The women divided the bread with a knife from the kitchen of the house church, where about 40 people gathered regularly to pray and read the Bible under the leadership of Valentina’s husband, Pavel Dmitrienko, a Seventh-day Adventist pastor.

Moments later Valentina and Pavel left the house and started the 15-kilometer (nine-mile) trek back to their home, eagerly looking forward to eat that bread with a simple soup of barley and water that evening.

Partway home the couple met an elderly woman on a bridge. She was thin, and her clothing was filthy. The elderly woman looked at Valentina. “Daughter,” she said with a wavering voice, “would you happen to have a piece of bread?”

Valentina immediately removed the half loaf from her purse and presented it to the woman. “Yes, I have, dear grandmother,” she said. “Please, take this.”

The elderly woman wept as she accepted the bread. “Thank you,” she said, tears streaking her dirty, wrinkled cheeks. “I haven’t eaten in three days. You’ve saved me from death.”

“We gave the one thing that we wanted most of all to the grandmother, and saved her life,” Valentina said years later in an interview in her home in Belgorod, Russia. “It was a real sacrifice—and it made us happier than ever before.”

This week’s narrative will highlight the importance of the God-first principle. When adopted, it will lead us to imitate Jesus, considering others’ well-being before our own. By thus becoming God’s representatives, we are assured that all our needs will be provided by Him.

(Adapted from a text of Andrew McChesney, https://www.adventistmission.org/%E2%80%8Bwhen-pastors-wife-gave-away-a-half-loaf-of-bread.)

#### inScribe

Write out 1 Kings 17:8–16 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out 1 Kings 17:13, 14. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `