---
title: Heathen Offerings Versus Offerings to God
date: 26/02/2023
---

#### inGest

The northern kingdom of Israel was deep into idolatry at the time of King Ahab. About 60 years earlier, in a political move intended to protect himself, Jeroboam, Israel’s first king, diverted the religious focus away from both Jerusalem and the worship of God in the temple—God’s storehouse. In place of it, he instituted the worship of idols, inaugurated multiple sites for worship, and instituted priests outside the tribe of Levi.

Omri, Ahab’s father, moved a step further to promote idolatry. Willing to secure a peace treaty with the Phoenicians, he married his son Ahab to Jezebel, daughter of the king of Sidon and worshipper of Baal. To please his wife, Ahab built a temple for Baal, and she brought a large entourage of Baal priests—in practice, making Baal’s worship the state religion.

Worshipers of Baal believed that he was the god of fertility, associated with rain and dew—crucial elements in providing for their maintenance. But by rejecting God, they were disconnecting themselves from the Source of life, the real Provider of all things.

This situation brought deep anxiety and despair to the heart of Elijah, who was a faithful worshipper of God. From his retreat in the mountains he decided to pray unceasingly and fervently for his nation, asking God to use any means, even judgments if necessary, to bring His people back to Himself.

God answered Elijah’s prayer and sent him to Ahab with news about judgment. There would be no dew or rain—the very blessings attributed to Baal—except at the word of the prophet, God’s representative. Taken by surprise, the king was unable to express any reaction. Meanwhile, at God’s command, the prophet ran to the brook Cherith, hiding himself there. He would drink water from the brook, and the Sustainer of all life ordered ravens to feed Elijah twice a day with bread and meat. As it happened to Elijah, there must be no worry about maintenance for those who are doing His work and are in the very place designed by Him for them.

After some months of drought, those who were formerly scoffing Elijah’s message had the chance to rethink their position. But they refused to humble themselves before “He who created nature [and who] controls her laws, and can make of them instruments of blessing or of destruction.” (Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1917], 125.)

Seen as the reason for the catastrophe, Ahab and Jezebel wildly searched for Elijah. They believed that by killing the prophet, their gods would be appeased. Unable to find him, the couple killed all of God’s prophets, except 100 whom Obadiah, the God-fearing governor of Ahab’s house, managed to hide and to feed in a cave.

Still willing to placate the gods, Baal’s priests kept offering costly sacrifices. But they were of no avail, and the drought became worse. Here is a marked difference between almost all pagan offerings and the regular offerings expected by God. While the first are frequently given before the expected blessing to earn merit or to appease their angered gods, regular offerings to the God of heaven are always given after the blessing, in grateful recognition of it. If there is no blessing, no tithe and no regular offering are expected, because our giving should always be a grateful response to His giving.

**Memorize your favorite verse in 1 Kings 17:8–16. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

Is God still able to tell us the very place where we should go, the kind of work that we should look for, or a field of study that we should pursue? How can we discern His will?