---
title: 'A Key Principle for Life'
date: 27/02/2023
---

#### inTerpret

After the brook dried up, Elijah was told the place and the person to whom he should go. By selecting a widow to provide for him, the least likely person, God planned to highlight His power to provide, teaching lessons of trust to both.

Not being an Israelite, she was, however, a true follower of God, walking according to all the light that she had. So, it was not an uncommon thing that even during the drought, she would hand a glass of water to that thirsty traveler. When the prophet added a request for a morsel of bread, she told him that she did not have bread and was just planning to use the last handful of flour and the final amount of oil to prepare one for herself and for her son. After that, they were expecting to die. How frequently our expectations fall short of God’s possibilities!

God’s answer to her is also directed to all God’s children who are struggling with difficult issues. First, she was commanded not to fear (see 1 Kings 17:13). Even though fear is something natural to our decayed condition, it is frequently an indication of lack of trust. It is useless, as no amount of human anxiety can improve God’s already perfect love and care for us.

Afterward, the prophet said something that sounded a little strange. Even knowing that this was her last amount of flour and oil, Elijah instructed the widow to “make me a small cake from it first, and bring it to me; and afterward make some for yourself and your son” (1 Kings 17:13). The sequence was unmistakable. He should receive the first morsel.

Was not Elijah behaving in a selfish manner? Was he not supposed to consider others first? As Elijah was God’s representative, and as God should always be considered the first (Rev. 22:13), she was supposed to give to the prophet the first part, as if it were given to God Himself.

“For thus says the Lord God of Israel” in the next verse (1 Kings 17:14) is a clear indication that God was the originator of that request. It is always to be blessed that we put Him first.

This special, sacrificial offering, given after God’s call, was a transaction of faith with God and not with the prophet. Sacrificial giving may be asked by God to individuals and become a test of faith (present truth), as in the case of Noah, the Zarephath widow, and the rich young ruler, just to mention three. The two first gave all in trust that God would provide something better for them (and He did!). On the other hand, by refusing to give at His request, the rich young ruler lost everything sometime later.

Before the widow could answer, Elijah assured her that if she would put God first, she would be provided by Him until rain would fall again (v. 14). Ellen G. White says that “those who in everything make God first and last and best, are the happiest people in the world.” (Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People [Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1930], 38.)

` `