---
title: The First and the Last
date: 01/03/2023
---

#### inVite

The Bible says that Jesus is “the Beginning and the End, the First and the Last” (Rev. 22:13). As Creator and Owner of all things, He does not depend on any human estimation to have that preeminence, because He is inherently so. When we say that we want to “put God first,” we are saying in other words that we want to recognize His primacy, demonstrating it in practical ways.

But how do we do it? Among other things, we put Jesus first when we spend time in communion with Him every day (personal, familiar, or collective worship) before doing any other thing; when, like Daniel, we do not replace our scheduled time of worship by any another activity, even at the risk of life itself (Daniel 6); when God’s business (to benefit and to save people) has precedence over our own businesses (to provide for ourselves); when we formally (and informally also) seek His sanction and blessing before becoming one flesh with our opposite-gender life companion (spouse); when we renounce any different sexual inclination we may have and accept God’s pattern of opposite-gender love relationships; when we keep the Sabbath, even at the risk of losing income; when we pray, seeking for guidance, before any purchase or business transaction; or when, in trust, we return the tithe and regular offerings before any other expense is met.

Those who are serious about following Jesus know that the recognition of His primacy will be reflected in the sequence of events in their daily schedule. What comes first determines what we value. When speaking about material needs, Jesus assures that “all these things will be added” to those who seek “first” His kingdom and His righteousness (Matt. 6:33). Those who think that they seek His kingdom and His justice, but do not do it “first,” should not expect God’s supernatural provision in the same way. Like the Laodiceans, they may be badly mistaken about their religious experience.

As we saw before, returning to God the regular offering after any income is a practical way to put Him first. It is a reminder that God should receive the first and the best part of all that we receive from Him, before any expense is met. Not that we are able to benefit or to feed Him. On the contrary, by our being regularly reminded of His goodness, our faith is strengthened, and we are challenged to trust Him more as the Provider, producing emotional rest and peace of mind.

The Zarephath widow’s narrative confirms in a practical way one of God’s expectations about our giving patterns while forwarding His kingdom and supporting His workers on the earth. It indicates that a special blessing is reserved for those who not only sacrifice something to honor the Lord, but do it first, even before looking for their own needs. It is an exercise of trust, a decision to live under Jesus’ umbrella.

As in the case of the widow, putting God first will especially affect the way one relates to others. When someone accepts the Lordship of Jesus, His missionary service for the good of others also becomes a joyful priority. The “me after you” principle, practiced by all true follower of Christ, was also adopted by such patriarchs and prophets as Abraham, Isaac, and John the Baptist.

When Christ’s missionary work in favor of the salvation of others becomes the priority in life, all the disciples’ needs will be provided, as in the case of the Zarephath widow. “If men will become channels through which heaven’s blessing can flow to others, the Lord will keep the channel supplied.” (Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1940], 36.)

`Where do you see Jesus in 1 Kings 17:8–16?`

`What is preventing you from putting communion with Jesus “first” in your daily schedule?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`