---
title:  Word Pictures in the Bible That Show Us Peace and Agreement
date:   03/11/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
1 Peter 2:9; Exodus 19:5, 6; Ephesians 2:19–22; 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; 1 Corinthians 12:12–26; John 10:1–11; Psalm 23.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “There is one body, but it has many parts. But all its many parts make up [form] one body. It is the same with Christ” (1 Corinthians 12:12, NIrV). 

THE BIBLE is filled with word pictures that show us important truths. One example is the Jewish worship plan in the Old Testament. The animals killed as part of that plan were word pictures too. They showed us Jesus’ future death. 

The Bible uses many other word pictures to teach us truth. Some word pictures are very simple. Water, fire, and wind are a few examples. In John 3:8, Jesus uses the wind as a word picture. He uses it to help us understand the Holy Spirit’s work in our lives. “The wind blows where it wants to and you hear its sound. You do not know where it comes from or where it goes. It is the same with everyone who is born of the Spirit of God” (NLV).

The Bible uses different word pictures to help us understand what it means in the church to have unity. You will remember from past lessons that unity is peace and agreement. Unity comes from our being joined as one in heart, mind, and the truth with Jesus and each other. God commands the church to show everyone on earth that we are joined as one in Him. The word pictures of unity in the Bible show us many truths about agreement in the church and with other people. This week, we will take a closer look at some of these word pictures. What do they teach us about being joined as one in Jesus?