---
title:  God’s people
date:   04/11/2018
---

`In 1 Peter 2:9; Exodus 19:5, 6; Deuteronomy 4:20; and Deuteronomy 7:6, we learn about God’s special people. What does it mean to belong to God’s people? Why is the church special in God’s eyes?`

The church is about people. But not just any people. The church is God’s people. God’s people are the people who belong to Him. These people accept God as their Father and Savior. Jesus saved God’s people, and they obey Him. The word picture of the church shows us an important truth. God has always had a people on earth. From Adam and Noah’s time to Abraham’s time, God made Special Agreements with His people. He chose His people to show the truth about Him to all people. He wanted His people to show His love, mercy, and justice to everyone on the earth.

In 1 Peter, 2:9, Peter tells us that God’s people are “a chosen group of people” (NLV) and are “the King’s [Jesus’] priests [religious leaders]” (ERV). Peter also says God’s people are “a holy nation [group of people from the same country], people who belong to God” (ERV) and “God’s special treasure” (NIrV). All these word pictures show us that God chose His people. He separated them from all the people on the earth to do special work for Him. What is that work? Peter tells us in that same verse. God “chose you to tell about the wonderful things he has done” (ERV). All these word pictures about the church show us God’s heart. Exodus 34:6, 7 uses these same word pictures to talk about God. “God chose the church as His own special treasure. He wanted its members to live lives that showed everyone on earth God’s heart. He wanted His people to tell everyone about His love and His mercy.”—The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 7, page 562, adapted. 

`Deuteronomy 7:6–8 shows us that God chose Abraham’s future children to be His people. Why did God choose Israel? What does God’s choice mean for us today?`

No one has done anything to earn God’s special favor. The Bible shows us that God chose Israel to be His special people for only one reason. He loved them.

`Why must we always remember that God saves us because He loves us and not because we do any special work?`