---
title:  The family of God
date:   05/11/2018
---

Yesterday, we saw how the Bible uses the word picture of a church to describe God’s people. Another word picture the Bible uses to show us God’s people is a big house made of stones. Peter says that Christians are the same as “living stones” (1 Peter 2:5, ERV). God uses these “stones” to build a spiritual temple or house. Each stone shows us the different ways that everyone is connected to each other in the church. This word picture helps us to understand how God makes us strong and firm in our faith. 

`In Ephesians 2:19–22, Paul uses a word picture to explain unity. We know that unity is peace and agreement. Unity comes from our being joined as one in heart, mind, and the truth in Jesus and with each other. How does Paul’s word picture in Ephesians 2:19–22 show us unity in the church?`

In these verses, Paul mixes two word pictures into one: (1) a house or building and (2) the family that lives in that house. One stone by itself cannot make a house. But when a stone is joined with other stones, it can make a strong building. No Christian can be a “stone” alone, separate from other “stones” or believers. No, we must all join with other believers in Christian friendship in the family of God. A building must be solid. A solid building must stand on a strong foundation. Jesus is the foundation for the church (read 1 Corinthians 3:11). The church will die if Jesus is not its foundation. The church is really about Jesus: His life, death, His waking up from the dead, and His Second Coming. The church is a community of believers. They join together to share the Good News about Jesus with everyone on earth. 

How else is the church the same as a family? Most families have a father and a mother, brothers and sisters. Connections between family members can be strong. Church members are also part of one big family. We are connected to the human family because of Adam. But as Christians, we also are connected to each other because Jesus became the “Second Adam.” In Jesus, we experience the “new birth.” In this way, we become joined with each other in new life. 

`Not all people have a wonderful family experience. So, how can the church become the family some people never had?`