---
title:  The Holy Spirit’s temple
date:   06/11/2018
---

Yesterday, we saw how the Bible uses the word picture of a building to show us what it means to belong to God’s family. Today, we will look at another building. It is the “temple” of the Holy Spirit. Paul uses this temple as a word picture in 1 Corinthians 6:19 to mean the human body. But when Paul talks about the “temple” in 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17, he does not mean the human body. Paul means the most holy and precious building of the Near East in New Testament times. That building was God’s temple in Jerusalem. Paul uses God’s temple as a word picture to describe the church.

`In 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17, Paul tells us that the church is the temple of the Holy Spirit. What does that mean? Also, what is Paul warning us about in verse 17?`

Clearly, Paul is not talking about a real building for God. What this word picture means is that the Christians in Corinth become the “temple” of the Holy Spirit. God “lives” with them by living in their hearts.

For Paul, God lives in our Christian friendships and unity. As we learned, unity is agreement. Unity comes from our being joined as one in heart, mind, and truth in Jesus and with each other. Paul warns us not to destroy these connections. God will judge the person who tries to destroy Christian unity. Christian unity is at the heart of our friendships and connections in the church. God is at the heart of our unity in His “living temple.” 

Earlier in 1 Corinthians 3, Paul talks about the dangers to the church’s unity (1 Corinthians 3:3). Separations and disagreements are behaviors that are dangers to our peace. Bad feelings and behaviors cause God to remove Himself from His church. Disagreements in the church can destroy God’s “temple.” God wants members to turn away from feelings that cause disagreement.

What do we do when disagreements happen in the church? Paul’s advice to the Corinthians holds true for us today: “Agree among yourselves. Do not be divided into little groups. Think and act as if you all had the same mind” (1 Corinthians 1:10, NLV).

`We all must do our part to put a stop to the problems that destroy our unity. What can you do to help end them?`