---
title:  The “body (the church)” of Jesus
date:   07/11/2018
---

Maybe the most popular word picture for the church is Jesus’ body. This word picture gives us a strong description of unity. We know that unity is peace and agreement. Unity comes from our being joined as one in heart, mind, and the truth in Jesus and with each other. That is why Paul writes, “There is one body, but it has many parts. But all its many parts make up one body. It is the same with Christ [Jesus]” (1 Corinthians 12:12, NIrV). And “You are the body of Christ. Each one of you is a part of it” (1 Corinthians 12:27, NIrV).

`In 1 Corinthians 12:12–26, Paul uses the word picture of a body to describe the church and how it works. How do all the body’s parts work together? What does this word picture tell us about the way our worldwide church works together too?`

Paul’s teaching in 1 Corinthians 12 shows us a deep truth. Real Christian unity or agreement happens because the Holy Spirit blesses our differences and helps us to work together in unity. The human body is made of many parts. Each of those parts is very different from each other. The “body” of Jesus, His church, is the same way. The different parts of the church help show us that the “body” of Jesus is very wonderful and perfect. 

The word picture of the body speaks to us as Seventh-day Adventists. In the last thirty years, our church grew very fast. The Seventh-day Adventist Church is made of members from almost every way of life, race group, and country on earth. But we must not let our differences separate us from Jesus or each other. We should let the Holy Spirit control us so that we can come closer together. Then we will show everyone the truth that we are all one people in Jesus.

At the foot of the cross, everyone is equal. It does not matter who we are or where we come from. People everywhere and their ways of life are becoming more and more hopeless and broken. So, as a church we must show everyone that we can join together, even when we are different from each other. God’s people can show other people that we can have unity in Jesus. We can show everyone on the earth that the Good News about Jesus has the power to heal people and join us all together.