---
title:  Sheep and Shepherd
date:   08/11/2018
---

`In John 10:1–11, John uses the word picture of a sheep fence to explain unity. (Read also Psalm 23.) We know that unity is peace and agreement. Unity comes from our being joined as one with each other in heart, mind, and the truth in Jesus. What parts of this word picture help us to understand what unity is?` 

Jesus tells a picture-story about shepherds in John 10:1–11. In our way of life today, we may know very little about shepherds. But the people in Jesus’ day understand clearly what Jesus talks about. So when Jesus says, “ ‘I am the Good Shepherd’ ” (John 10:11, NLV), the people know right away that Jesus’ words are a quotation from Psalm 23: “The LORD is my shepherd” (Psalm 23:1, ERV). The people understand the meaning of “my shepherd” very clearly. The word picture of the shepherd is full of deep meaning for the people. Shepherds in the Near East take very good care of their sheep. The shepherd is one of the most beloved word pictures in all the Bible. Nothing else so fully shows us who God is or how much He loves His people.

The Bible uses sheep as a word picture to describe God’s people. Sheep are very gentle and helpless. They need a good shepherd to protect and guide them. Sheep get lost sometimes. So, some people think sheep are very stupid! The shepherd searches for his lost sheep and puts them back inside their fence. Young sheep often need to be carried and need a lot of extra care. Shepherds must be patient and understanding with sheep if they want to take good care of them. In many ways, sheep are a perfect word picture for the church. Church members need the Good Shepherd to take care of them, lead them, and keep them safe. 

In His picture-story, Jesus also talks about how the sheep must to listen to the Good Shepherd and obey Him. Sometimes, a shepherd must put several different flocks of sheep together in the same place to protect them. How can the shepherd later separate his flock from the flocks that are not his? Easy. All the shepherd needs to do is stand at the gate and tell his sheep to come to him. His sheep know their shepherd’s voice. As soon as the sheep hear the shepherd’s voice, they will separate from the other flocks and come to him (John 10:4). The church must obey the voice of the Shepherd in the same way. We must do what He tells us to do. Our unity and our safety depend on obeying Him.