---
title:  Additional thought
date:   09/11/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Divine [having to do with God] Shepherd,” pages 476–484, in The Desire of Ages; “The Church on Earth,” pages 240–243, in Counsels [advice] for the Church.

“The New Testament uses the word picture of a temple to help us understand that the church is very holy. The Bible also uses this word picture to explain the things God did to start and grow the church. This word picture also helps explain the work of Jesus and the Spirit and the agreement needed between believers. When we think of a church, we often think of a building. But the Bible wants us to think about the church in a different way. The Bible wants us to make a picture in our minds of a church that God continues to build, not one already finished. For sure, the church is ‘the temple of the living God’ (2 Corinthians 6:16).”—John McVay, “Biblical [from the Bible] Metaphors [word pictures] for the Church: Building Blocks for Ecclesiology [teachings about the church],” in Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, editor, Message, Mission [special work for God] and Unity [agreement] of [in] the Church (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald®, 2013), page 52, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Think about the word pictures we studied this week. Which one do you like most? Why? Here are some more word pictures about the church: 1 Timothy 3:15; 2 Timothy 2:3–5; 1 Peter 2:9. What else do these word pictures teach us about our church?`

`2.	“God wants His people to become very good friends with each other. We must have faith in our brothers and sisters so that the church can be a success. We must agree on what to do when trouble happens in the church. If we do something wrong or careless, we may cause the church to suffer hard times. It may take many years for the church to heal from these mistakes.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 3, page 446, adapted. What a strong warning! So, why must we protect our unity in the church?` 

`3.	Why must we trust in God’s loving-favor alone to save us and not in our own good behavior?`