---
title:  Living With Each Other
date:   14/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Colossians 3:18, 19; Proverbs 22:6, 15; Colossians 3:22–25; Colossians 4:2–4.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “When you speak [talk] to people, always speak [say] kind [loving] words. Say things that will help them. Then, when someone asks you a question, you will know how to reply [answer]” (Colossians 4:6, EASY).

When people live and work together in close relationships, they may have problems with each other. Sometimes they may argue or disagree. So, it is very important for everyone in the relationship to do their best to get along.

Of course, our closest relationships are with family members. The home is sometimes named “the family business.” That’s because there are many things that are the same between our running a business and a home. Family members should agree about beliefs and plans. Everyone should get along with each other. All members of the family should do their part to make the home a success and a happy place to be. What about the church? The church is really a large family. So, the same important rules for success and happiness should be followed in the church, too.

In our memory verse for this week, Paul gives us some important rules for how a Christian family works best. The Christian home should follow Bible rules. Of course, the Christian home will be different from the Roman home in Paul’s time. Paul also gives other important Bible rules to help us in our relationships, both inside and outside the home.