---
title:  Husbands and Wives
date:   15/03/2026
---

The New Testament includes good advice for Christian homes (read Ephesians 5:21–6:9; Colossians 3:18–4:1; Titus 2:1–10; and 1 Peter 2:18–3:7). These “home rules,” as this advice is named, are not just about who is in charge in the family. The rules also include advice to help families make their relationships happy and healthy.

`Read Colossians 3:18, 19. What advice does Paul give in these verses? What other words of advice does Paul add in Ephesians 5:22–25, 33?`

Many husbands love this quote from the Bible: “Wives, understand and support your husbands by submitting to [obeying] them” (Colossians 3:18, MSG). But these men leave off the last part of the verse, which says, obey them only “in ways that honor the Master [Jesus]” (MSG). The New Testament doesn’t teach anywhere that women must obey ALL men. The New Testament also doesn’t teach that women should be the same as slaves or do whatever their husbands want or ask. Paul is saying that the wife must be loyal to the Lord first and her husband second. The husband must not control his wife’s personality. He also must not decide for her what is right and wrong. The Bible and the Holy Spirit will help her decide for herself.

Jesus loved the church and gave His life to save her. Jesus’ love shows husbands how they should love their wives (Ephesians 5:25). Husbands must not cheat on their wives. They must honor their marriage vows. Husbands will make decisions that are a blessing to their wives. When a husband loves his wife in this way, he helps her to obey the command to respect him (Ephesians 5:33).

In a healthy Christian marriage, the husband and wife will do things together as a couple. They will make decisions and plans together as a couple. Sometimes they may need to include their children in their talks and plans. But parents must never fight or argue in front of the children. What if the husband and the wife can’t agree? The Bible tells us what to do. The wife must accept her husband’s decision, if his plans don’t go against Bible truth. This advice will bring peace to the family. At the same time, many husbands can remember times when their wives gave them wise advice. When the husband and wife work together as a team, their marriage will be happy.