---
title:  Parents and Children
date:   16/03/2026
---

Children are an important part of the family. Children need to know that their parents love them. Parents must also teach children that God loves them. God wants children to be members of His kingdom in heaven. Family worship is important. Families should worship together every day, morning and evening. At an early age, children should be taught to help clean the house and to do other chores. Most important, children should obey Paul’s command: “Children, obey your parents in everything. The Lord is pleased when you do” (Colossians 3:20, NLV).

**Read the following verses. What Bible rules do these verses teach us about raising or training our children?**

`Proverbs 22:6, 15`

`Matthew 19:14`

`Deuteronomy 6:6, 7`

`Proverbs 1:8, 9`

Parents must show their children how to live. They also must teach their children Bible truth. When parents train their children to follow the Lord, children will be a blessing to others. Paul warns parents not to teach and punish them in anger. “Fathers, do not nag [scold; blame; or accuse] your children. If you are too hard to please, they may want to stop trying” (Colossians 3:21, ICB). So, parents must be loving when they teach and punish their children. The father, even more so than the mother, has a big part in the success of the spiritual lives of the children.

Studies show that when both parents go to church, the children continue to go to church, too, when they grow up. If the father goes to church every week, the children will stay in the church as adults. So, fathers should do their best to be strong spiritual leaders in their families.