---
title:  Working Together
date:   17/03/2026
---

`In Colossians 3:22–25 and Colossians 4:1, what advice does Paul give to slaves? What important rules do these verses teach us about working with people?`

People today sometimes use the topic of slavery as an excuse to throw out parts of the Bible. But when we study the topic of slavery in the Bible, we must look at Bible history in both the Old and New Testaments. The Bible teaches that God made people as copies of Himself. He made us to be free. That’s why the law of Moses commanded that the Israelites must not be slaves forever (Deuteronomy 15:12). A person couldn’t be a slave for more than six years. Six years was the most that a person must work to pay back all the money he owed (Exodus 21:2–6; Leviticus 25:39–43). Slavery during New Testament times was not the same as slavery in our modern times. The slavery of the last few hundred years is a crime too terrible for words.

In New Testament times, the church needed to follow Roman law. Roman law allowed the Roman people to own slaves. But Roman law also gave slaves many rights or permissions. These rights included the permission and legal power to do many of the same things that regular Roman people did. If Christians tried to end slavery during New Testament times, their efforts would hurt the work that God gave them to do.

As a church member, the slave must be loyal to God first. Christian masters must be fair and kind to their slaves. Paul tells masters, “Remember that you also serve a master, and he is in heaven” (Colossians 4:1, EASY). Also, Paul told Philemon, a church member, not to think of Onesimus as his slave any longer. Yes, Onesimus was a slave. But both Onesimus and Philemon were Christians. So, Paul told Philemon to love Onesimus the same as his brother (Philemon 1:16). Did you know that in both the Old and New Testaments, God’s people are named slaves or servants of God? (Read Psalm 34:22; Luke 17:10; and 1 Peter 2:16.) That should help us to remember to have hearts empty of pride.

We may not like some things that happened in Bible times. Slavery is one example. But we must accept what the Bible says. If we don’t, we make our own ideas more important than Bible truth. Let’s look at everything the Bible says first about a topic. Then we can better understand what the Bible says about it.