---
title:  Praying For Each Other
date:   18/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 4:2–4. What important rules for prayer do these verses teach us? What does Paul ask for people to pray for?`

Some of the most important words we can say to someone who needs help are “I’m praying for you.” Prayer is heaven’s way of communicating and connecting with us. “Part of God’s plan is to give us those things we ask for. God gives them to us in answer to our prayer of faith. God will give them to us because we ask Him. If we don’t ask Him, we will not get these things.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 525, adapted.

Notice the words that Paul uses to talk about prayer: “continue,” “stay awake,” “watch carefully,” and “remember to thank God” (Colossians 4:2, EASY). These words tell us that Paul’s prayer is a prayer of faith (Colossians 4:2). Elsewhere, Paul tells us to pray “always” (Ephesians 6:18, EASY) and to “never stop praying” (1 Thessalonians 5:17, ERV). Also, “we do not know how we ought to pray. But God’s Spirit Himself prays for us. He cries to God on our behalf [for us] in a way that nobody could say with words” (Romans 8:26, EASY).

`Read again Colossians 4:3. In this verse, Paul says, “Pray that God will open the door for us to preach the Word [the Bible]” (NLV). What “door” do you think God will open for you to share your faith?`

Paul also prayed for the right words to say. Sometimes, when we read Paul’s letters, we may think that Paul didn’t doubt or worry about what he should say. But here he asks for prayer to help him preach the Good News about Jesus so that everyone can understand (Colossians 4:4). Paul understands that it is very important to preach the message to the most powerful leaders in the Roman government, including the members of the king’s house.

“We don’t always need to get on our knees to pray. Start the habit of talking with the Savior when you are alone, when you walk, and when you are busy doing your daily chores and work. Say a silent prayer in your heart for help. Pray this way all the time. Pray for strength and knowledge. Let every breath be the same as a prayer.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pages 510, 511, adapted.