---
title:  Be Careful How You Live
date:   19/03/2026
---

As Christians, what is the most important Bible truth that we can know? Of course, that Jesus Christ died for our sins. He also gives us the strength to win the fight against sin. When we believe in Jesus, we can have everlasting life. We couldn’t learn this Bible truth on our own. God needed to tell us about it. God showed this truth to us in the Word of God, the Bible, and in His Son, Jesus.

We know so much about truth, knowledge, and wisdom because God showed us these things in His Word, the Bible. God gives us much knowledge and wisdom. God wants our lives to show that we are filled with this knowledge and wisdom.

`Read Colossians 4:5, 6 and answer the following questions. At what times does Paul say we must be careful to be wise? Why do you think that is so?`

Sad to say, as Christians, sometimes we are not very Christian! Paul says that Israel caused other people to insult God because of their terrible behavior: “Because of you Jews, the Gentiles [non-Jews] say bad things against God” (Romans 2:24, EASY). Our behavior matters a lot. So, we should be kind to everyone, including people who don’t believe in Jesus (read Titus 2:5 and 2 Peter 2:2). A Christian home can help people to see Jesus in us. Also, we must stay patient and kind when people make us angry. Then they will see that our faith is real.

In Colossians 4:6, Paul talks about the words we say: “When you speak [talk] to people, always speak [say] kind [loving] words. Say things that will help them. Then, when someone asks you a question, you will know how to reply [answer]” (Colossians 4:6, EASY). Paul’s advice to us in this verse about our words has three parts. First, our words must be more than nice and kind. Our words and behavior must show God’s love.

Second, we should say things that help people.

Third, we need the Holy Spirit’s help to know what to say. Only the Holy Spirit can give us the right words to say at the right time. The Holy Spirit also helps get the minds and hearts of people ready to hear the message we must share with them.

`Think about your words and behavior. What message do they send to other people about your faith in Jesus?`