---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/03/2026
---

“All members of the family should understand that they must do their part to make the family happy. One family member shouldn’t work against another family member. All members of the family should encourage each other. They should be loving, patient, and kind. They should talk softly. They should not say anything confusing. They all must do their part to help the mother around the house. . . .

“All family members should understand that they are expected to work together. All children, ages six years and older, should understand that they must help with the chores in the house.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pages 179, 180, adapted.

“We must let Jesus into our hearts and homes if we want to be happy. We should make our houses a home in every way we can. Home should be a little heaven on earth. Home should be a place where we can show our love and not hide it. Our happiness depends on our love for one another. . . . We should not think of our own happiness. We should look for every chance to show our family members how much we love them for everything they do for us. We try to cheer them up and make their work easy. We can cheer them up when they are sad. We can do little things to show them how much we love them. The love that starts in the family will grow. We will show this love to people who are not part of our family. This love will help make our lives and the lives of other people so happy. When we fail to do the little things we can to help people, we cause other people to feel much sorrow in life.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, pages 539, 540, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`If you are married, what Bible rules help you in your relationship? What advice can you give to people who aren’t married? How can they best get ready for the problems that marriage always brings?`

`Think some more about this idea of being careful in how you live your life (Colossians 4:5). Think about a time when you were careful in how you lived. Compare that to a time when you were not so careful in how you lived. What did you learn from each experience?`