---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/04/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Call of Abraham,” pp. 125–131, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “Jew and Gentile,” pp. 188–200, in The Acts of the Apostles.

The rainbow is a sign of God’s covenant with Noah. Read Genesis 17:10 to discover what the sign of God’s covenant was with Abraham. Circumcision “was destined: (1) to distinguish the seed of Abraham from the Gentiles (Eph. 2:11), (2) to perpetuate the memory of Jehovah’s covenant (Gen. 17:11), (3) to foster the cultivation of moral purity (Deut. 10:16), (4) to represent righteousness by faith (Rom. 4:11), (5) to symbolize circumcision of the heart (Rom. 2:29), and (6) to foreshadow the Christian rite of baptism (Col. 2:11, 12).”—The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, pp. 322, 323.

The rainbow will remain as a sign of God’s promise until the end of the world, but the sign of circumcision will not. According to the apostle Paul, circumcision was received by Abraham as a token of the righteousness he had received by faith in God (Rom. 4:11). However, through the centuries, circumcision came to signify salvation by obedience to the law. By New Testament times, circumcision had lost its significance. Instead, the essential element is faith in Jesus Christ, which leads to an obedient, transformed life. Read Galatians 5:6; Galatians 6:15; and 1 Corinthians 7:18, 19.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Discuss the relationship between faith and works. Can there be one without the other? If not, why not?`

`“Many are still tested as was Abraham. They do not hear the voice of God speaking directly from the heavens, but He calls them by the teachings of His Word and the events of His providence. They may be required to abandon a career that promises wealth and honor, to leave congenial and profitable associations, and separate from kindred, to enter upon what appears to be only a path of self-denial, hardship, and sacrifice. God has a work for them to do; but a life of ease and the influence of friends and kindred would hinder the development of the very traits essential for its accomplishment. He calls them away from human influences and aid, and leads them to feel the need of His help, and to depend upon Him alone, that He may reveal Himself to them. Who is ready at the call of Providence to renounce cherished plans and familiar associations?”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 126, 127. Discuss any contemporary examples of those you know who heeded this same call.`

**Summary**: God called Abraham into a special relationship with Him, one that would reveal the plan of salvation to the world.