---
title: 'The King S Love Song'
date: 04/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 2:7; Song of Solomon 1:2, 13; 1 Corinthians 7:3–5; Song of Solomon 4:8–5:1.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Hold me close to your heart where your royal seal [sign of the king’s power] is worn. Keep me as close to yourself as the bracelet on your arm. My love for you is so strong it won’t [will not] let you go. Love is as powerful as death. Love’s jealousy is as strong as the grave. Love is like [the same as] a blazing [hot and bright] fire. Love burns like a mighty flame’ ” (Song of Solomon 8:6, NIrV).

**MARRIAGE** is one of the biggest changes in life. It comes with its own problems and blessings. One blessing is the gift of sex. Sex is a wonderful way to show love. But sex must happen at the right place and time: in marriage. Many people today think the Bible is against sex. Not true! God is not against sex. He made sex. But God wants you to enjoy this gift only with the person you marry.

The Song of Solomon shows us that love and sex in marriage can be wonderful. Yes, the Song of Solomon is one of the smallest books of the Bible. But it tells us many important things about love. It is the story of a young bride. Many people believe her husband was King Solomon. Most people think that the Song of Solomon is a very long word picture. They believe the book is a symbol of God’s love for His church. But we must remember that the Song of Solomon is a love poem first. It is about the very real love of a man and a woman. This week we will look at marriage in the Song of Solomon.