---
title:  "THE GIFTS OF LIFE AND SEX (Genesis 2:7)"
date:   05/05/2019
---



`What does the Bible teach us about the human body? Read Genesis 2:7; Psalm 63:1; Psalm 84:2; 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20; 1 Thessalonians 5:23 for the answer.`

Some religions believe that the human body is evil. They say that only the “spirit” inside the body is good. But the Bible does not say that. The Bible teaches that every person has a body and a spirit (read Genesis 2:7). God made us this way. That is why the writer of Psalm 63:1 and Psalm 84:2 worships God with his body and spirit. He worships God with his whole self. 

`What does the Song of Solomon teach us about the human body and sex? To find the answers, read Song of Solomon 1:2, 13; Song of Solomon 2:6; Song of Solomon 5:10–16; and Song of Solomon 7:1–9. How do these verses show us that the Bible teaches that the human body and sex are gifts from God?`

The Song of Solomon shows us that the human body is very beautiful. It also teaches that we should not feel ashamed or guilty about having sex with our husband or wife. Sex between two married people who love each other is not bad or “dirty.”	

In some religions and countries, people are not allowed to talk about sex. So, it can be very hard for some married people to talk about sex at all. The Bible talks about sex. So, we should feel better about talking about sex with our husbands or wives too. The Bible teaches us to respect the gift of sex. It is one of our most precious gifts from God.

`Some religions and people believe that sex is very dirty and wrong. Other religions and people believe that we should not talk about sex at all. How does the Bible show us that both of these ideas are wrong?`