---
title: 'Love In The Song Of Solomon'
date: 06/05/2019
---

`The Song of Solomon shows us different pictures of love. What are they? For the answer, read Song of Solomon 1:2, 13; Song of Solomon 2:10–13, 16; Song of Solomon 3:11; Song of Solomon 4:1–7; Song of Solomon 5:16; Song of Solomon 6:6; Song of Solomon 7:1–9; and Song of Solomon 8:6, 7.`

The Song of Solomon shows us that friends spend time together. Friends also communicate with each other. Friends care about each other too. In the Song of Solomon, two good friends get married to each other. The wife says her husband is “my friend” (Song of Solomon 5:16, NKJV). A person who marries his or her best friend is very happy.

In the Song of Solomon, the married couple show their love in many ways. They praise each other. They say many nice things about each other. The way they behave also shows that they love each other very much. God gave married couples the gift of sex to help them grow very close. But husbands and wives must let God’s love into their hearts first. God’s love will change their hearts. Then their human love will be made “very beautiful and holy.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 99, adapted.

It is not natural for the human heart to love. We are sinners. Our hearts are selfish. True love is a gift from the Holy Spirit (Romans 5:5). This love joins a husband and wife together. Parents need to love their children with this same gift. This love is not selfish. It also joins believers together in the church. The Song of Solomon asks us to love our husbands and wives with this same love.

`How does marriage show us that God wants to be close to us? What things must happen in a healthy marriage? What about spending time together? Or being unselfish? Why are these things important if we want to be close to God?`