src/en/2019-02-er/06/04.md, before:

---
title: 'Knowledge That Comes From Love'
date: 07/05/2019
---

What was God’s first plan in the Garden of Eden for a husband and wife? God wanted them to “become one flesh [heart, mind, spirit, and body]” (Genesis 2:24, 25, NLV). Some people think that the Song of Solomon shows God’s wish to bring couples back to His first plan for marriage in Eden. That may be true. The poem uses many beautiful word pictures and symbols. They show us God’s plan for a husband and wife to become “one flesh.”

`What does the Song of Solomon show us about love between a husband and his wife? Read Song of Solomon 4:7–5:1. How does 1 Corinthians 7:3–5 help us understand these verses in Song of Solomon better?`

Solomon says to his bride: “ ‘Come with me’ ” (Song of Solomon 4:8, KJV). His bride answers. Later, she invites him to “come into his garden” to meet her (Song of Solomon 4:16, KJV). Solomon answers (Song of Solomon 5:1). What do these verses teach us about love? They teach us that love does not force anyone to do anything. Both Solomon and his bride love each other. Solomon does not force his bride to love him. She does not force him to love her either. 

The names “Solomon” and the “Shulamite” come from the Hebrew word “shalom.” “Shalom” means “peace” or something that is “whole.” Both Solomon and the Shulamite feel peace because they share the same love for each other (Song of Solomon 4:1–5; Song of Solomon 5:10–16). The Shulamite says: “My love [Solomon] belongs to me, and I belong to him” (Song of Solomon 2:16, NIrV). Her words are almost the same as Adam’s in Eden when God brings Eve to him: “ ‘Now, this is someone whose bones came from my bones. Her body came from my body. I will call [name] her “woman,” because she was taken [made] out of [from] man’ ” (Genesis 2:23, ICB). 

`The Bible uses the word “knew” (Genesis 4:1, KJV) or the words “lay with” (Genesis 4:1, NLV) to explain the love and the sex shared between a man and woman in marriage. Look at other examples of how this word is written in the Bible: Genesis 4:25; 1 Samuel 1:19; Luke 1:34; John 17:3; and 1 Corinthians 8:3. How do these verses help us better understand God’s plan for love and sex in marriage?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/06/04.md, after:

---
title: 'Knowledge That Comes From Love'
date: 07/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What was God’s first plan in the Garden of Eden for a husband and wife? God wanted them to “become one flesh [heart, mind, spirit, and body]” (Genesis 2:24, 25, NLV). Some people think that the Song of Solomon shows God’s wish to bring couples back to His first plan for marriage in Eden. That may be true. The poem uses many beautiful word pictures and symbols. They show us God’s plan for a husband and wife to become “one flesh.”

`What does the Song of Solomon show us about love between a husband and his wife? Read Song of Solomon 4:7–5:1. How does 1 Corinthians 7:3–5 help us understand these verses in Song of Solomon better?`

Solomon says to his bride: “ ‘Come with me’ ” (Song of Solomon 4:8, KJV). His bride answers. Later, she invites him to “come into his garden” to meet her (Song of Solomon 4:16, KJV). Solomon answers (Song of Solomon 5:1). What do these verses teach us about love? They teach us that love does not force anyone to do anything. Both Solomon and his bride love each other. Solomon does not force his bride to love him. She does not force him to love her either. 

The names “Solomon” and the “Shulamite” come from the Hebrew word “shalom.” “Shalom” means “peace” or something that is “whole.” Both Solomon and the Shulamite feel peace because they share the same love for each other (Song of Solomon 4:1–5; Song of Solomon 5:10–16). The Shulamite says: “My love [Solomon] belongs to me, and I belong to him” (Song of Solomon 2:16, NIrV). Her words are almost the same as Adam’s in Eden when God brings Eve to him: “ ‘Now, this is someone whose bones came from my bones. Her body came from my body. I will call [name] her “woman,” because she was taken [made] out of [from] man’ ” (Genesis 2:23, ICB). 

`The Bible uses the word “knew” (Genesis 4:1, KJV) or the words “lay with” (Genesis 4:1, NLV) to explain the love and the sex shared between a man and woman in marriage. Look at other examples of how this word is written in the Bible: Genesis 4:25; 1 Samuel 1:19; Luke 1:34; John 17:3; and 1 Corinthians 8:3. How do these verses help us better understand God’s plan for love and sex in marriage?`
