src/en/2019-02-er/06/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Love At The Right Time'
date: 08/05/2019
---

`Read Song of Solomon 4:8–5:1.`

Song of Solomon is a beautiful love poem. Song of Solomon 4:16 and Song of Solomon 5:1 are the very center of this poem. They show us what happens when Solomon and the Shulamite finally get married.

`Read Song of Solomon 4:12, 16; Song of Solomon 5:1; and Song of Solomon 8:8–10. What is Solomon talking about in these verses?`

Song of Solomon shows us God’s plan for sex. God does not want people to have sex before they are married. We see this truth in the story about the Shulamite when she is a little girl. Her brothers wonder if she will grow up to be a “wall.” Or will she grow up to be a “door” (Song of Solomon 8:8, 9)? A door is a word picture for a woman who has sex before she is married. But a wall is a word picture for a woman who does not have sex before she is married. Before she gets married, the Shulamite says, “ ‘I am a wall’ ” (Song of Solomon 8:10, NIrV). Her words are a hint that she has not had sex with anyone. On his wedding night, Solomon tells us that the Shulamite is “a garden” that is locked. The locked garden is a word picture. It shows us that the Shulamite did not have sex before she was married (Song of Solomon 4:12). That is why the Shulamite can tell her friends to follow her example. They need to think about marriage carefully. Three times the Shulamite talks to a group of women named the “daughters of Jerusalem.” The Shulamite warns them not to have sex until the right time (Song of Solomon 2:7; Song of Solomon 3:5; Song of Solomon 8:4). When is that? When a woman is married. That is the only time sex is right and safe. 

Then Solomon invites his bride to come away with him (Song of Solomon 2:10; Song of Solomon 4:8). Before the wedding, the Shulamite cannot say yes. But after the wedding, she is the one who invites him to her garden (Song of Solomon 4:16). He says yes (Song of Solomon 5:1). Solomon does not love the Shulamite only for her beauty. He is deeply in love with her (Song of Solomon 4:10). He is happy and excited that she is his bride now and forever. She belongs to no one else but him (Song of Solomon 4:12). He is now married to the perfect woman. It is the same for Solomon as going to the Promised Land (Song of Solomon 4:11).

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/06/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Love At The Right Time'
date: 08/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Song of Solomon 4:8–5:1.`

Song of Solomon is a beautiful love poem. Song of Solomon 4:16 and Song of Solomon 5:1 are the very center of this poem. They show us what happens when Solomon and the Shulamite finally get married.

`Read Song of Solomon 4:12, 16; Song of Solomon 5:1; and Song of Solomon 8:8–10. What is Solomon talking about in these verses?`

Song of Solomon shows us God’s plan for sex. God does not want people to have sex before they are married. We see this truth in the story about the Shulamite when she is a little girl. Her brothers wonder if she will grow up to be a “wall.” Or will she grow up to be a “door” (Song of Solomon 8:8, 9)? A door is a word picture for a woman who has sex before she is married. But a wall is a word picture for a woman who does not have sex before she is married. Before she gets married, the Shulamite says, “ ‘I am a wall’ ” (Song of Solomon 8:10, NIrV). Her words are a hint that she has not had sex with anyone. On his wedding night, Solomon tells us that the Shulamite is “a garden” that is locked. The locked garden is a word picture. It shows us that the Shulamite did not have sex before she was married (Song of Solomon 4:12). That is why the Shulamite can tell her friends to follow her example. They need to think about marriage carefully. Three times the Shulamite talks to a group of women named the “daughters of Jerusalem.” The Shulamite warns them not to have sex until the right time (Song of Solomon 2:7; Song of Solomon 3:5; Song of Solomon 8:4). When is that? When a woman is married. That is the only time sex is right and safe. 

Then Solomon invites his bride to come away with him (Song of Solomon 2:10; Song of Solomon 4:8). Before the wedding, the Shulamite cannot say yes. But after the wedding, she is the one who invites him to her garden (Song of Solomon 4:16). He says yes (Song of Solomon 5:1). Solomon does not love the Shulamite only for her beauty. He is deeply in love with her (Song of Solomon 4:10). He is happy and excited that she is his bride now and forever. She belongs to no one else but him (Song of Solomon 4:12). He is now married to the perfect woman. It is the same for Solomon as going to the Promised Land (Song of Solomon 4:11).
