src/en/2019-02-er/06/06.md, before:

---
title: 'Protect God S Gift'
date: 09/05/2019
---

God made humans male and female for a special reason (Genesis 1:26–28). Both the male and the female show us God’s “image [a copy of something else; who God is]” and “likeness [something that is nearly the same as something else]” (Genesis 1:26, ICB). But when a man joins with a woman in marriage, they become “one flesh [heart, mind, spirit, and body” (Genesis 2:24, NLV). Marriage shows us the way that God the Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit are joined as One God. That was God’s plan for marriage. He wanted marriage to show us who He is. When a husband and wife have a baby, they show God’s power to make new life.

`What does the Bible have to say about sex that is not part of God’s plan? To find the answer, read Leviticus 20:7–21; Romans 1:24–27; and 1 Corinthians 6:9–20.`

The Bible shows us that all sex that breaks God’s law is wrong. It is a sin. Sex sins destroy God’s image in humans. God leads His people to sex that honors His law. God’s law shows us our sin.

`What advice does the Bible give Christians about sex on an earth full of sin? For the answer, read Romans 8:1–14; 1 Corinthians 6:15–20; 2 Corinthians 10:5; Galatians 5:24; Colossians 3:3–10; and 1 Thessalonians 5:23, 24.`

As Christians, we wait for Jesus to make us clean again. We will be free from sin when Jesus comes back. We wait in faith. We believe Jesus’ death on the cross makes us “dead” to sin. We are alive in Jesus because He woke up from the dead. How do we win the war against sin? We never stop praying. We watch ourselves for any sign that sin is trying to take control of our lives. The power of the Holy Spirit helps us win the war against sin. We believe our “old lives” are nailed to the cross. Our old selves are dead. We now obey Jesus in our thoughts. We agree that God owns our bodies. So, we must not do anything that goes against God’s plan.

God forgives us when we say we are sorry for sin and turn away from it. The Good News about Jesus gives us power over any sex sin. Sin has hurt us so much. So, we need God’s power to heal us and make our sex lives new. 

`How should we as a church feel about same-sex couples?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/06/06.md, after:

---
title: 'Protect God S Gift'
date: 09/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God made humans male and female for a special reason (Genesis 1:26–28). Both the male and the female show us God’s “image [a copy of something else; who God is]” and “likeness [something that is nearly the same as something else]” (Genesis 1:26, ICB). But when a man joins with a woman in marriage, they become “one flesh [heart, mind, spirit, and body” (Genesis 2:24, NLV). Marriage shows us the way that God the Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit are joined as One God. That was God’s plan for marriage. He wanted marriage to show us who He is. When a husband and wife have a baby, they show God’s power to make new life.

`What does the Bible have to say about sex that is not part of God’s plan? To find the answer, read Leviticus 20:7–21; Romans 1:24–27; and 1 Corinthians 6:9–20.`

The Bible shows us that all sex that breaks God’s law is wrong. It is a sin. Sex sins destroy God’s image in humans. God leads His people to sex that honors His law. God’s law shows us our sin.

`What advice does the Bible give Christians about sex on an earth full of sin? For the answer, read Romans 8:1–14; 1 Corinthians 6:15–20; 2 Corinthians 10:5; Galatians 5:24; Colossians 3:3–10; and 1 Thessalonians 5:23, 24.`

As Christians, we wait for Jesus to make us clean again. We will be free from sin when Jesus comes back. We wait in faith. We believe Jesus’ death on the cross makes us “dead” to sin. We are alive in Jesus because He woke up from the dead. How do we win the war against sin? We never stop praying. We watch ourselves for any sign that sin is trying to take control of our lives. The power of the Holy Spirit helps us win the war against sin. We believe our “old lives” are nailed to the cross. Our old selves are dead. We now obey Jesus in our thoughts. We agree that God owns our bodies. So, we must not do anything that goes against God’s plan.

God forgives us when we say we are sorry for sin and turn away from it. The Good News about Jesus gives us power over any sex sin. Sin has hurt us so much. So, we need God’s power to heal us and make our sex lives new. 

`How should we as a church feel about same-sex couples?`
