---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   10/05/2019
---



**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

“Jesus blessed marriage. So, we should believe that marriage is very holy. True religion does not work against the Lord’s plans. God’s plan was for man and woman to be together in holy marriage. He wanted them to raise families. These families are living word pictures for the family in heaven. When Jesus first started His work on earth, He blessed marriage. Just as He blessed marriage in Eden. In this way, Jesus showed us that He will be part of marriage. Marriage is one of the most wonderful blessings that God ever gave the human family. But marriage must be holy. It must be joined with truth and God’s love.”—Ellen G. White, Daughters of God, pages 180, 181, adapted. 

The Song of Solomon shows that sex can be a wonderful experience in marriage. But a good marriage must be about more than beauty and sex. Our bodies get old, right? No amount of diet, exercise, or even a good surgeon can keep us looking young forever. Solomon and the Shulamite’s marriage is about more than things that change and pass away. Their love is lifelong. Three times they say that they belong to each other (Song of Solomon 2:16; Song of Solomon 6:3; Song of Solomon 7:10). This love cannot be killed (Song of Solomon 8:7). It cannot be broken (Song of Solomon 8:6).

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Solomon says that his wife is perfect (Song of Solomon 4:1–5; Song of Solomon 6:9; and Song of Solomon 7:1–9). Compare Solomon’s words to what Adam said when he first saw Eve (Genesis 2:23). How should husbands feel and think about their wives (Ephesians 5:28, 29)?`

`2. Some believe that the Song of Solomon shows us the love between Jesus and His church. How does Solomon and the Shulamite’s love show us God’s love for us? Read Isaiah 54:4, 5; Jeremiah 3:14; and 2 Corinthians 11:2 to help you answer the question.`

`3. Read Proverbs 31:26; Song of Solomon 5:16; and Proverbs 25:11. These verses show us how important our words are. How can our words “tear down” or “build up” our husbands or wives? How can our words weaken our marriages or make them stronger? Also, read James 1:26 and James 3:5–11 to help you answer the questions.`