---
title:  Central and Peripheral Vision
date:  20/06/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 6:19–34

Central and Peripheral Vision

Central vision is the middle circular part of vision, the area that one’s attention is focused on. Without this vision, one cannot see what they are trying to focus on, while they see everything else. Individuals can see around the focal point, but their sight is fuzzy, and they cannot make out anything that is front of them.

Peripheral vision is the outside part, where you can see things coming at you from the side. Without this, one can have tunnel vision, in which there is a definite focal point but nothing else around it. Poor peripheral vision leads to accidents because of the limited perspective.

You can discern the difference by placing the pointer finger of each hand in front of your face with your arms straight out. Choose one finger and focus on it. While staring at the first finger, swing your other finger and arm slowly away from it. Measure the distance of your peripheral vision by ascertaining the line where the finger can no longer be seen by your peripheral vision.

In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus preached on trusting in the Father’s providence. Several times He says not to worry (Matthew 6:25, 27, 28, 31, 34), concluding with “Seek first the kingdom of God...” (Matt. 6:33). This lesson will look at priorities when understanding the will of God.

Many things in this world are needed and take up our central vision. Some peripheral concerns we also need to be aware of. While to many the difference between central and peripheral concerns is implicitly common sense, Jesus sets a new way of thinking which becomes crucial to find that sweet spot in the will of God.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 6:19–34 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Matthew 6:31–34. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``