---
title:  Making Jesus Last
date:  22/06/2020
---

#### inTerpret

Ellen White writes in Fundamentals of Christian Education (see this week’s inSight) that those who make Jesus first, last, and best are the happiest people in the world. As the previous section talked about making Jesus first, the question remains, What does making Him last mean?

In a classic illustration, an individual has a bunch of large rocks, smaller stones, and sand to put into a jar. In trying to put everything into it, placing the finer sand and smaller stones first prevents the largest rocks from fitting in. The largest rocks should be placed first, to be followed by the little stones and then the sand to fill the gaps in between. The lesson is that the largest should be placed first. Since the largest value in our lives should be spiritual, these are the principles we should cultivate and encourage in the decisions of our lives.

If we can take an inVerse approach, however, though the rocks are the largest, the smallest sand is just as important. It fills in the empty space between the stones and rocks. Not only should Jesus be the largest to us but also the smallest (and therefore, last) component that brings everything together. It’s not so much about putting everything in but rather filling all of the empty space with Him. Perhaps, after all that, we find there is even space for even finer things—liquids, and even gases. Shouldn’t God be the last and the most plentiful entity we fill our lives with?

Analogies have their limitations, but the point remains that not only is making God first is important but also to look at all the decisions we’ve made by the end of the day, or in a project, a stage of life, or your whole life, thus far, and realize that God was in the biggest chunks as well as in all the little gaps in life as well. Not only should we ask the question, Was God the largest part of our lives, but also, was He in every part of our lives?

Beyond just setting the priority of spiritual things, seeking God first and last is making God an inseparable part of our minds, hearts, decisions, thoughts, and our entire lives. We often relegate spiritual things as a formality or attempt to assign numeric value to things in a list in trying to make God first. But beyond these human attempts, God is seeking to be at one with us, in every component of our time on earth, in order to prepare us for our time together with Him in heaven. He yearns to be our first and our last; our Alpha and our Omega; our beginning and our end.

``