---
title: Conflict Intensifies
date: 02/11/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 9, 10**

**Conflict Intensifies**

John 7 marks the beginning of the last six months or so of Jesus’ life. After initially avoiding Judea because of the threat to His life and ministry (John 7:1, 9–19), Jesus returned to Jerusalem for the Feast of Booths (Sukkoth), a feast of gratitude and joy that occurred after the Day of Atonement. The people were thankful both for the harvest and for passing through the judgment. Despite the threat on His life (7:30, 44; 8:57–59), Jesus attended the feast, apparently arriving in the middle of the week-long celebration (7:14).

His entrance led to a long interaction between Himself, the Jews, and the worshipers (7:16—8:59). Jesus repeatedly declared His connection to the Father (7:16–18, 29; 8:14–18, 54, 55), and as a result, people wondered about His identity and origin (7:25–32). They knew He was from Galilee and therefore questioned if He could really be the Messiah since Scripture said the Messiah would come from Bethlehem (7:41, 42). Some were determined to kill Him (7:43, 44; 8:59).

In the midst of the dialogue, John presents the story of the woman caught in adultery (8:1–11). This unnamed woman is an excellent illustration of how judgment and life play out in the Gospel. Unquestionably, it reflects Jesus’ attitude toward humanity.

The chapters that follow see Jesus moving in and out of Jerusalem (9:1–5; 10:38–42), continuing to teach and heal. All these events occurred under the shadow of the ongoing threat against Jesus’ life. In this lesson, we will concentrate on chapters 9 and 10. These incidents immediately followed Jesus’ experience during the Feast of Booths (7:1–5). The end of chapter 10 introduces us to the winter festival, known today as Hanukkah (10:22). This was Jesus’ final visit to Jerusalem before the fateful final week of His life.

#### inScribe

Read John 10:6–14. Do so three times slowly. Ask the Lord to speak to you about any phrase He might bring to mind. Ask Him what He’s trying to apply to your life in this passage. Then pause and speak with God about what you’re learning. Notice the different “I am” statements. What do they convey to you? Create an outline or a mind map of the verses.

` `