---
title: Washing in the Pool
date: 03/11/2024
---

#### inGest

The themes of belief and unbelief, of revelation and conflict, continue. We encounter Jesus’ sixth named sign: the healing of a blind man. Restoring sight to the blind was one of Jesus’ most common miracles. In the Old Testament, giving sight to the blind demonstrated a power that belonged only to God (e.g., Exod. 4:11; Ps. 146:8) and was associated with the coming kingdom (e.g., Isa. 29:18; 35:5; 42:7). John’s account of the healing of the blind man (John 9:1–12) is followed by an extensive controversy over the healing (vv. 13–41) and Jesus’ theological discourse (10:1–18). As you read, try to place yourself in the scene. How would you react?

Immediately, we’re confronted with a question: who is responsible for this man’s blindness (v. 2)? Many at that time period believed that all suffering directly resulted from an individual’s choices. The prevailing idea suggested it was his parents’ fault, but Jesus rejected this view. Suffering is not always the result of a particular sin. We live in a fallen world, in the midst of a cosmic war, and like civilian causalities in human wars, we often suffer because of circumstances beyond our control. In this case, the man’s blindness served another purpose: it revealed the power of God (v. 3).

Three words stand out in John 9:4: “we,” “must,” and “me” (ESV). It’s not Jesus alone who needs to be doing His Father’s work but us as well. The commission given to Him is also given to us. Night certainly is coming; we will not always have the opportunities we do now.

Jesus took the initiative in healing this man. He mixed clay with spittle and anointed the blind man’s eyes. Though saliva was thought to be curative in the ancient world, Jesus’ method was unique. Perhaps including clay points us to the creation account (Gen. 2:7), highlighting the healing as a creative work. In any case, John tells us that Siloam means “sent” (v. 7) and reminded us that Jesus was sent from the Father. Only the Sent of God can remove blindness and sin.

The healing caused a mixed reaction (9:8–13). After some questioning, we learn that this occurred on the Sabbath. The miracle demonstrates that Jesus is doing God’s work, but some thought He was a sinner for acting on the Sabbath (v. 16). The Pharisees were divided on this point (v. 16) and asked the formerly blind man for his opinion. He replied, “He [Jesus] is a prophet” (v. 17).

Even when confronted with the man’s testimony and the miracle, the leaders closed their eyes to the truth, preferring to remain blind. The leaders appeared to be sightless, groping for a way out of their dilemma. They saw the miracle but refused to believe in Christ. This story is a warning to everyone who resists conviction. May we learn that light is for walking in, not for simply staring at.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 9, 10. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Do you ever close your eyes to the conviction God is bringing? What can you do to avoid this?`

`In what ways does our culture indulge the belief that blindness, sickness, and poverty are signs of God’s displeasure while health and wealth indicate His favor?`