---
title: Interrogating the Witnesses
date: 04/11/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Refusing to believe what they saw, the Jews called in the blind man’s parents. While they confirmed their son’s identity , they refused to say how the miracle occurred (John 9:20, 21). As their son was more than old enough to testify, they deferred all further questioning to him (v. 21). Motivated by fear, the parents dodged the questions to shield themselves from being expelled from the synagogue (vv. 22, 23). Despite the amazing transformation of their son, fear ruled their response.

Finally, the attention and questioning returned to the healed man (9:24–34). The conversation that follows is the liveliest in the chapter. The Pharisees intended to coerce or humiliate the man, but he responded with irrefutable arguments. The leaders focused on the traditional understanding of sin being connected to specific actions—in this case, breaking the Sabbath. Having no clear defense for their position, they depended on arrogance and threats (vv. 28, 34). In contrast, the healed man didn’t follow them into the debate of whether Jesus is a sinner. He simply responded with the facts of the healing, a cure that was unprecedented in history (vv. 30–32). This led him to the simple conclusion that his Healer must have been from God (v. 33). Such an unparalleled act must have originated with God. Despite having been a beggar, he articulated a clear, compelling argument. In this regard, the man was functioning more like a wise teacher than the religious leaders were.

Jesus finally reentered the story at its conclusion. He again took the initiative, seeking out the healed man and drawing from him a confession of faith (vv. 35–38). Although he hadn’t seen Jesus, the man probably recognized the same voice that bade him go wash in the pool. Without hesitation, he declared his belief and worshiped Christ (v. 38). He had moved from seeing Jesus as his Healer to recognizing Jesus as his Messiah. His sight had increased from physical to spiritual and theological.

From the one party, we see a clear confession of faith, and from the other, a definitive statement of judgment. Echoing the larger theme in the Gospel, Jesus stated that He came for judgment, one that leads to either sight or condemnation (v. 39). By rejecting Jesus, the Pharisees passed judgment on themselves, demonstrating their inability to see (vv. 40, 41).

The account reminds us of the message to Laodicea (Rev. 3:14–22). The believers there said they were rich and could see, effectively demonstrating that they were poor and blind. The claim to have spiritual knowledge increases our responsibility. We must confess our blindness, ask for eye salve, and then follow the increased light. We must not live with eyes half open, only following the light we choose. May the Lord grant us a spirit of humility and the desire to search our hearts to discover what we don’t see on our own.

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what ways can we be tempted to let fear control how and when we witness?`