---
title: The Good Shepherd
date: 06/11/2024
---

#### inVite

Despite the chapter division, Jesus’ words continue without any break in continuity. John 10:1–21 provides a commentary on the controversial healing in the previous chapter. Jesus contrasted Himself with the blind teachers of the people. He introduced a new metaphor, one familiar to the crowds. He had already compared Himself to water (John 4:13, 14; 7:37, 38) and light (8:12), and here He turned to a peaceful image that conveys the close relationship between Himself and the believers: a flock of sheep and their shepherd. Sheep recognize and trust the voice of the true shepherd. When sheep are lost or wandering, the shepherd gently guides them back to safe paths. By emphasizing the care and leadership of the true shepherd, Jesus both revealed what the Father is like and indirectly showed the difference between His work and that of the Pharisees (10:1–6).

Obviously, shepherding was a common occupation in Jesus’ day. The imagery undoubtedly would have resonated with His hearers. However, the metaphor has another layer that’s important to grasp. The Old Testament frequently used the same symbolism. Israel’s unfaithful kings were compared to bad shepherds who took advantage of their flocks. The prophets promised that eventually God would act and bring in a True Shepherd (Ezek. 34:1–31). Once more, John masterfully highlighted that those who should have understood failed to grasp the meaning of Jesus’ words (John 10:6). Being blind, they thought of themselves as God’s shepherds, not as thieves. Their behavior betrayed them, however, just as Jesus’ behavior revealed His role as the True Shepherd.

Jesus then presented a layered “I am” metaphor: He is the Door, or gate (vv. 7–9). The door controls access to the sheep and is the means of reaching the pasture. As the Door, Jesus serves as the sheep’s protector and functions as their way to reach nourishment. This concept is in harmony with His mission (vv. 9, 10). He is also the Good Shepherd (v. 11). As the Shepherd, He has an intimate relationship with the sheep (vv. 11–18). This firmly identifies Jesus as the promised shepherd who was foretold in Ezekiel 34:15.

Jesus’ self-revelation resulted in different responses. His hearers either moved further into the light or deeper into the darkness (John 10:19–21; 7:43; 9:16; 12:35). Jesus longed to draw His hearers into His fold and lead them into an abundant life (10:10). But He would not drive or compel any to follow Him. Today, He is still calling all who will hear His voice to come and follow. The Good Shepherd takes responsibility for all who respond to His voice. He patiently leads and fiercely protects all who come under His tender care. He goes so far as to lay down His own life on behalf of His sheep (v. 11). He gives us every reason to trust Him as the Good Shepherd who always has our best interest in mind.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 9, 10 again and look for where Jesus is.

`What are the differences and similarities between true and false shepherds? Think about the implications as they relate to God as our Shepherd.`

`How does the allegory of the True Shepherd illustrate why Jesus was accepted by some and rejected by others in John 9?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`