---
title: inQuire
date: 08/11/2024
---

#### inQuire

Share insights from your study this week. Include any questions you might have for the group, as well as discoveries, observations, and new understandings. Below are some questions for discussion with the rest of your study group.

`Once again, Jesus healed on the Sabbath. Do you think this was deliberatively provocative, or was another motive at work?`

`Explain the transformation from being a beggar to being one who is articulate enough to contend with the religious leaders. Can you?`

`Who would you include in Jesus’ “other sheep” that must be gathered into the fold? (John 10:16; 11:52; Isa. 56:8.) Which flock are you a part of?`

`Jesus said He came to bring abundant life and joy (John 10:10). Have you experienced this in your life? What could you do to increase your “joy in the Lord” (Neh. 8:10)?`

`What does taking joy in the Lord mean? What does it look like in everyday life?`

`What is your greatest hindrance to recognizing your spiritual blind spots?`

`What might we misunderstand today that could lead us to reject Jesus?`

`Write down a list of questions you would like to discuss with your study group.`

`The Gospel frequently says Jesus gave His life freely (John 3:14; 6:51; 10:11). How does this fit with the concept that it’s the Father who gave His Son (3:16)?`

`Place yourself in the scene in John 9:8–34. Think of the emotions, the perplexity, and the joy being expressed. How do you imagine you would respond?`

`Take a moment to enter a prayerful state of mind. Meditate on John 10:25–30. What parts of this passage are meaningful to you?`