---
title:  God’s Temple In Heaven
date:   19/05/2024
---

`Read Exodus 25:8, 9, 40 and Hebrews 8:1–6. What two Holy Tents do these verses talk about?`

The first Adventists believed the Bible taught that Jesus would come back in 1844. When Jesus didn’t come back, that time was named the Big Disappointment. Adventists studied the Bible to discover the reason for their mistake. As they studied, they learned that the Bible talks about two Holy Tents: the one Moses built, and the one in heaven. The Holy Tent that Moses built was a copy of the one in heaven. The work that the priests or spiritual leaders did in the Holy Tent on earth helped God’s people understand the work that Jesus did in heaven to save us from sin. When Jesus died, the work in the temple on earth was no longer needed. After Jesus’ death, God’s New Promise with His people started in His temple in heaven. The temple in Daniel 8:14 shows us God’s work for us in His temple in the end times. So, the temple in Daniel 8:14 also must be the temple in heaven.

“When the 2,300 days ended, in 1844, no Holy Tent or temple had been on the earth for many hundreds of years. So, the 2,300-day time message must be about the temple in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 417, adapted.

The Holy Tent in the desert was a model, or a small copy, of the temple in heaven. The work done in the Holy Tent on earth showed God’s plan to save us. Every animal offered as a gift showed Jesus’ death for us on the cross of Calvary (John 1:29). Jesus’ offering for our sins makes us free from the punishment of sin. Because of Jesus, God forgives us. Our guilt is gone when we accept Jesus’ offering for us and confess our sins (1 John 1:9). Jesus is the Lamb who died for us. He is also the Priest, or Holy Leader, who lives to save us.

Hebrews 7:25 explains: “So Christ [Jesus] can save those [people] who come to God through [because of their faith in] him. Christ can do this forever, because he always lives and is ready to help people when they come before God” (ERV). Jesus removes our guilt and saves us from sin (Romans 8:1–4; 2 Corinthians 5:21). Jesus works in heaven’s temple for us. He is our Helper. He breaks sin’s control over our lives. We no longer are slaves to sin. Jesus makes us free: free from sin’s penalty and control. When we hold onto Jesus, He will save us.