---
title:  In The Most Holy Place
date:   20/05/2024
---

`Read Leviticus 16:21, 29–34; Leviticus 23:26–32; and Hebrews 9:23–28. Why was the Day of Atonement important to Israel during Old Testament times? The Day of Atonement was the Day When God Removes All Sin. This day is also named the Day of Judgment.`

Israel’s priests, or holy leaders, worked for God every day of the year. But on the Day When God Removes All Sin, the priests did very special work in the Holy Tent or Tent of Meeting. Leviticus 16 and 23 tell us about this special work. On the Day When God Removes All Sin, no one did any work. They ate no food. The High Priest, or Top Spiritual Leader, went into the Most Holy Room in the Tent of Meeting. There, he met with God for the people. While the High Priest met with God, the people emptied their hearts of pride. They came to God and confessed their sins.

What if someone refused to empty his heart of all pride and ate food on that day? Anyone who ate food on that day or had any pride in his heart would “be separated” from his people (Leviticus 23:29, ERV; also read verse 27). He would no longer be part of God’s chosen people. On the Day When God Removes All Sin, the high priest took the blood from the Lord’s goat into the Holy Tent. First, the high priest sprinkled the goat’s blood on the mercy seat. The mercy seat was the special piece of furniture in the Most Holy Room of the Tent of Meeting. The mercy seat rested on top of the Ark of God’s Promise. Inside the ark was God’s law. God came and stood in a cloud of perfume above the mercy seat. There, God met with the high priest. The cloud of perfume hid God from the priest so that God’s shining beauty didn’t kill the priest.

The high priest also put blood on the horns of the gold altar and on the brass altar. When the priest finished this work, he put his hands on the living goat and confessed Israel’s sins. Then a man led the goat into the desert where it was separated from the camp of Israel forever (Leviticus 16:20–22). The priest took the goat’s blood into the Holy Tent to show that God recorded His people’s sins (Jeremiah 17:1) and removed all their sin Himself. The goat was led far away into the desert to show that God had a clean Holy Tent and a clean people. These symbols show us the work Jesus has done for us since 1844. At that time, Jesus left the Holy Room and went into the Most Holy Room in God’s temple to finish His work for us.