---
title:  The Time Has Come For God To Judge 
date:   21/05/2024
---

`Compare Daniel 7:9, 10 with Revelation 14:6, 7. What same thing do these verses talk about?`

God’s work as Judge is important in the Bible. “God knows everything people do, even [including] the things done in secret. He knows all the good and all the bad. He will judge everything people do” (Ecclesiastes 12:14, ICB). Jesus talked about a future time when “people will have to explain about every careless thing they have said. This [explanation] will happen on the Judgment Day [the time when God will judge all people]” (Matthew 12:36, ICB). Paul adds, God “will bring into the light the things that are hidden in men’s hearts. He will show why men have done these things” (1 Corinthians 4:5, NLV). In John’s dream about the end times, an angel announces, “ ‘The time has come for God to judge all people’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV).

`Read what the angel told John in Revelation 22:10–12. When Jesus comes back, what will happen to all humans?`

When Jesus comes back, He will give out His final rewards. First, Jesus must judge us. His work as judge will show who will get a reward or punishment at His coming. When Jesus comes back, we get no second chances. Before He comes, everyone will get a fair chance and enough information to make a final decision for or against Jesus.

`Read Matthew 25:1–13. What does Jesus say to the two groups in these verses? Why is Jesus’ answer to the first group so different from His answer to the second group?`

“God will examine the life record of every person who has lived and followed Jesus. After God decides the case of every person, He will finish His work as Judge. Then no one else can be saved after that. Jesus said, ‘The girls who were ready went in with the bridegroom to the wedding feast. Then the door was closed and locked.’ [Matthew 25:10, ERV]. In this one short verse, Jesus tells us about the time when His work to save us will be finished.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 428, adapted.

We do not need to fear God’s work as Judge. Jesus loves and forgives us. He removes our guilt. He makes us holy. Jesus helps us win the fight against sin.