---
title:  The Good News About The Most Holy Place
date:   22/05/2024
---

`Read Hebrews 4:14–16 and Hebrews 10:19–22. In these verses, what invitation and hope does God give to each one of us?`

In these verses, Paul tells us to “hold on to the things we believe” (Hebrews 4:14, WE). He adds, “Let us go with complete [filled with] trust to the throne of God” (Hebrews 4:16, NLV). Paul also says, “Let us come near to God with a true [clean and honest] heart full of faith” (Hebrews 10:22, NLV). Jesus gives us everything we need. Jesus made a “new and living way” for us to come to God in His temple in heaven (Hebrews 10:20, NLV).

What do we see when we look inside the walls around the temple? We see the brass altar, with its horns. We see blood on the horns. In the Holy Room, we see blood on the gold horns of the altar where sweet-smelling perfume is burned. We see sprinkled blood on the curtain that is in front of the mercy seat. We see blood everywhere.

What does the blood teach us? The blood is a word picture for Jesus’ blood. We see Jesus’ blood at every step we take along the way to God. Jesus’ blood gives us hope. We can meet with God only if Jesus pardons us and removes our sins with His blood. God’s mercy never fails. His fair ways also never fail. Because God is fair, He can’t accept Jesus’ death for our sin until Jesus forgives our sins and removes them.

`Read about the ark in Revelation 11:19. Why is this dream that John has about the ark of God’s Promise so important? How are the law and the Good News connected?`

In his dream, John sees the Ark of God’s Promise in the Most Holy Room of God’s Temple in heaven. In the ark is God’s law. Hebrews 8:10 says, “In the future I will make this agreement with the people of Israel, says the Lord. I will put my teachings in their minds. And I will write them on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people” (Hebrews 8:10, ICB). Because of our faith in Jesus, we can enter God’s temple. Inside, Jesus forgives our past sins. He also gives us strength to obey God’s law. Anyone can come to Jesus. He can “save them completely [fully] and for all time” (Hebrews 7:25, NIrV).