---
title:  Jesus, Our Lawyer
date:   23/05/2024
---

`Read Hebrews 10:9–14. What do these verses teach us about the priest’s work in the Tent of Meeting on earth? As we saw, a priest was a Jewish spiritual leader. What do these verses teach us about Jesus’ work as our High Priest or Top Spiritual Leader in the temple in heaven? How is the work of the priest different from Jesus’ work in heaven?`

Jesus died one time for everyone. His death on the cross was the perfect offering for sin. Now Jesus works as our High Priest in heaven’s temple. There, He works to make us holy. Jesus entered the Most Holy Room in 1844. Now Jesus stands as our Lawyer in front of God, our Judge (1 John 2:1). Jesus “gave Himself once [only one time] to take away the sins of many [people]. When He comes the second time, He will not need to give Himself again for sin. He will save all those [people] who are waiting for Him” (Hebrews 9:28, NLV). Jesus’ death on the cross and His work for us in heaven solve the sin problem. When He comes a second time, He will give a reward to everyone who is “looking forward to his coming” (2 Timothy 4:8, ERV).

`Why does Jesus invite us to follow Him? What do we discover when we do? Read Hebrews 6:19, 20 for the answers.`

“Jesus goes to God to get help for us. This work is a necessary part of God’s plan to save us. We need this work as much as we need Jesus’ death on the cross. When Jesus died, He started the work that He would finish when He went to heaven. We must enter with faith into the Most Holy Room. ‘Jesus has already entered there and opened the way for us.’ Hebrews 6:20 [ERV]. There, we will understand more about what happened for us at Calvary. We will understand better God’s plan to save us with His blood. Saving us was expensive. God paid a very high price: His son had to die because we broke His law. Jesus opened the way to the Father’s throne. Jesus goes to God for us to ask Him for the things that we need. We must come to Jesus and ask for these things in faith.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 489, adapted.

God’s plan to save sinners is a complete plan. God’s plan solves both the worldwide war between good and evil and saves us from sin and Satan. When we come to Jesus with faith, He makes us clean and holy.