---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/05/2024
---

Notice what Ellen G. White says about Jesus’ work for us during the time when God judges us: “Jesus does not excuse our sins. He shows His Father that we are sorry for our sins. Jesus also shows God our faith. Jesus asks God to forgive us. Jesus lifts His scarred hands for the Father and the holy angels to see. Then Jesus says, ‘I know the names of each one of my children. I got these scars because of my love for them.’ ‘The sacrifice [offering] God wants is a willing spirit. God, you will not reject a heart that is broken and sorry for its sin.’ Psalm 51:17 [ICB]. Satan accuses God’s people of guilt. Jesus announces to Satan: ‘The Lord says that you are wrong, and he will continue to correct you! The Lord has chosen Jerusalem to be his special city.’ [Zechariah 3:2, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 484, adapted.

“In a dream, Zechariah sees God’s people standing in front of the Lord. The people wear dirty rags. [The dirty rags are a word picture for our own good behavior.] The dirty rags should cause us to have no pride in our hearts. We should search our hearts very carefully. We make our hearts clean when we obey Bible truth. This work will cause us to empty our hearts of all pride. The more we look at Jesus and His perfect life, the more we will want to be the same as He is in our hearts. We will see less and less beauty in our own hearts. We must see that we are sinners. At the same time, we must depend only on Jesus to save us and make us holy. We can’t defend ourselves against Satan or the things he accuses us of doing wrong. Only Jesus can defend us. Jesus can stop Satan from blaming us. Jesus defends us with His own perfect life, and not with anything good we have done.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages 472, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about Jesus lifting His scarred hands for us in front of the Father. How does this picture make you feel? Why is Jesus our only hope during the time when God judges all people?`

`Ellen G. White wrote: “Only Jesus can defend us. Jesus can stop Satan from blaming us. Jesus defends us with His own perfect life, and not with anything good we have done.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages 471, 472, adapted. How do these words give you hope?`