---
title:  Paul the Apologist
date:   05/01/2026
---

### inGest

In Acts 17, Paul gave us a masterclass in apologetics. Here are four things we can learn from his example:

**Have cultural awareness.** Paul began by acknowledging the Athenians’ religious devotion. He didn’t attack or dismiss their beliefs. Instead, he used the altar to an unknown god as a bridge to introduce them to the true God (v. 23). This shows the importance of finding common ground when sharing our faith. Paul’s approach reminds us to respect and understand others’ worldviews, building on what people already know or believe.

_The takeaway:_ When talking about faith, start by understanding where others are coming from and use that to build a connection.

**Proclaim God’s greatness.** Next, Paul emphasized the greatness of God. He declared that God is the Creator of everything and does not live in temples made by human hands (v. 24). This was a direct challenge to the Athenians’ idea of gods being limited to temples or images. Paul was saying, “The God I serve is not confined. He is the Lord of all creation.”

_The takeaway:_ Show the sovereignty of God. He isn’t weak or finite; He is the Creator and Lord of the universe.

**Make the message personal.** Paul then made the message personal and relevant. He quoted their own poets, stating that God is not far from any of us: “In Him we live and move and have our being” (v. 28). In doing this, Paul connected with his audience on a personal level, showing that knowing God is not just an intellectual exercise; it’s a relationship.

_The takeaway:_ Don’t present God as an abstract idea. Make it clear that God desires a personal relationship with every person.

**Boldly present the full gospel.** Paul didn’t shy away from the more challenging aspects of the gospel. He called people to repent and boldly proclaimed Jesus’ resurrection (vv. 30, 31) even though it was controversial. Paul showed us that we can’t water down the message. We need to present the full gospel, including the need for repentance and the hope of eternal life.

_The takeaway:_ Don’t skip the tough parts of the gospel. People need to know about repentance and the resurrection.

No matter what religion or worldview we’re interacting with, Paul’s example is relevant and warrants study. His method shows that sharing the gospel is about connecting, respecting, and courageously presenting the full truth.

### Questions to explore

`How can you incorporate cultural awareness, theological depth, and personal relevance when sharing your faith with others?`

`Name a role model in your life who best exemplifies how to share the gospel in a winsome, compelling way. What can you learn from them?`