---
title:  inQuire
date:   10/01/2026
---

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to study this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Finding common ground:**

1. What kind of belief systems and culture did Paul confront in Athens? _Acts 17:16–23_
2. How did Paul acknowledge the Athenians’ religious beliefs and find common ground? How does understanding your audience’s cultural and philosophical background help in presenting the gospel more effectively?
3. How can we stay faithful to the gospel while finding common ground with people who hold other philosophies or worldviews?

`Personal reflection: What common ground can you find with those from different cultural or philosophical backgrounds when discussing faith? Share examples.`

**Sharing the truth:**

1. What were the basic truths about God that Paul shared with his audience? _Acts 17:24–31_
2. Why is it important to present the full message of the gospel, including foundational truths like creation, repentance, and the resurrection?
3. How did Paul’s success in Athens compare to his success in other cities? _Compare Acts 17:32, 33 with Acts 18:8–11._
4. How can the church be more effective in reaching out to the intellectual and academic communities today?

`Personal reflection: What do you think the hardest part about sharing the gospel with unbelievers is? How have you navigated the challenges?`

**Worldly philosophy:**

1. Why is every worldly philosophy incomplete without Jesus? _Col. 2:8–10; 1 Cor. 1:20, 21_
2. What do we need much more than deep, philosophical ideas? _1 Cor. 2:2–5_

`Personal reflection: When does philosophy enhance our defense of Christianity and when does it detract from it?`

### Key takeaways to remember

- We should find common ground with people from other belief systems as an entry point to share Jesus.
- People need to hear the gospel truth, even when it’s unpopular or controversial.
- We must continue sharing Jesus, even when our success seems limited.