---
title:  The Deeper Mantra
date:  31/08/2019
---

**Introduction**: Mal. 2:10; 1 Cor. 12:13; Phil. 2:1–8

Social justice. When you hear that term, what do you think about? How do those two words make you feel? Are you compelled to act, or are you enraged by the inaction of others, whether they are in your classes or on your campus, whether they sit in your pew or preach from a pulpit? When you see injustice played out in your mirror, what then? What happens next?

Our generation is not alone in its selfishness, in its inability to advocate for those in our communities who need to know that they, though poor, needy, lame, naked, or imprisoned, belong to the body of Christ, that salvation is a gift offered to them freely. We are so caught up in the blame game that we neglect our responsibilities. Yes, the church is a collective; however, we are not saved as the church, an entity. Meaning, just because the local congregation I belong to is not active or is indifferent to the needs of the community doesn’t mean I have that same luxury.

Israel Houghton’s song “Deeper” speaks to what our heart’s posture should be as we consider social justice: “Close enough to feel the cadence of Your heart for justice, Lord / Streams of justice flow to the least of these.”1 Whenever I hear the rest of the words of this song, I am compelled to reflect on every person I didn’t deem worthy of my assistance.

In a society seemingly committed to diversity, we are struggling to follow Paul’s instructions to fulfill his joy by being “likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory;” he continues, “but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves” (Phil. 2:2, 3). We are increasingly selfish and unaware of the fact that we are all brothers and sisters and that we should fight for the needs of those less fortunate than ourselves. In light of social justice, we fail when we don’t consider others as strongly as we consider ourselves. We fail when we don’t seek God’s heart for His people.

As you study this week, let this be your prayer: “God give us a heart for the least of these.”

---

_Dawnette Chambers, Round Rock, Texas, USA_