---
title:  Service: The Nearness of God
date:  01/09/2019
---

**Evidence**: Isa. 58:1–12

After the Israelites returned from Babylonian exile in 539 b.c., they became passionate about what the Christian Standard Bible translates as “the nearness of God” (Isa. 58:2). Isaiah writes of how the Israelites devoted themselves to praying, fasting, and sacrificing burnt offerings as a means of acquiring God’s presence and His favor. But for some reason, these acts of worship weren’t bringing the Israelites any closer to God. Rather, they seemed to be pushing Him away.

Isaiah 58 is a record of God telling the Israelites why their attempts to draw near to Him weren’t working. The Israelites were worshiping God while oppressing people (verses 3, 4). They were taking advantage of their servants and the poor.

Isaiah 58 challenges the Israelites to understand that drawing near to God is not just about sacrifices and fasting. God says, If you want to draw near to Me, then “ ‘break the chains of wickedness, . . . set the oppressed free. . . . Share your bread with the hungry, . . . bring the poor and homeless into your house, . . . clothe the naked when you see him, and [do not] ignore your own flesh and blood” (verses 6, 7, CSB). God says that when we put the needs of others before our own, we put ourselves in a position to receive His presence and His favor.

If prayer, fasting, singing, and other acts of worship are the only way we come to God but we still practice hate, discrimination, selfishness, and mean-spiritedness, then God too will look to us and say, “ ‘You cannot fast as you do today, hoping to make your voice heard on high’ ” (verse 4, CSB). Our praise will reach Heaven sounding like a “noisy gong or a clanging cymbal” (1 Cor. 13:1, CSB) because we have not love. When we draw near to those in need and show the love of Jesus Christ through service, then we are granted access to draw near to God. It is then that we are given His presence and His favor: “ ‘At that time, when you call, the Lord will answer; when you cry out, He will say, “Here I am” ’ ” (Isa. 58:9,CSB).

**React**

`1. This week, what are some practical ways you can draw near to God and show the nearness of God through service?`

`2. Has your church restricted worship to a church service on Sabbath morning? How can you “cry out loudly” and encourage them to draw near to God and show the nearness of God through service?`

---

_Claudia M. Allen, College Park, Maryland, USA_