---
title:  A Recipe for Success
date:  03/09/2019
---

**Testimony**: Isa. 58:6, 7

“Read this chapter carefully [Isaiah 58], and understand the kind of ministry that will bring life into the churches. The work of the gospel is to be carried by means of our liberality as well as by our labors. When you meet suffering souls who need help, give it to them. When you find those who are hungry, feed them. In doing this you will be working in lines of Christ’s ministry.”1

“Many wonder why their prayers are so lifeless, their faith so feeble and wavering, their Christian experience so dark and uncertain. ‘Have we not fasted,’ they say, ‘and walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts?’ In the fiftyeighth chapter of Isaiah Christ has shown how this condition of things may be changed. He says: ‘Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?’ Verses 6, 7. This is the recipe that Christ has prescribed for the faint-hearted, doubting, trembling soul. Let the sorrowful ones, who walk mournfully before the Lord, arise and help someone who needs help.”2

“The fast which God can accept is described. It is to deal thy bread to the hungry and to bring the poor which are cast out to thy house. Wait not for them to come to you. The labor rests not on them to hunt you up and entreat of you a home for themselves. You are to search for them and bring them to your house. You are to draw out your soul after them. You are with one hand to reach up and by faith take hold of the mighty arm which brings salvation, while with the other hand of love you reach the oppressed and relieve them. It is impossible for you to fasten upon the arm of God with one hand while the other is employed in ministering to your own pleasure.”3

**React**

`1. How should church members respond to the homeless or beggers?`

`2. Why would serving others be called a fast?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Manuscript 7, 1908.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, A Call to Medical Evangelism and Health Education, p. 25.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Welfare Ministry, p. 30.</sup>

_Yolanda Pugh, Tallahassee, Florida, USA_