---
title:  See. Say. Do!
date:  04/09/2019
---

**How-to**: Ps. 82:3; Prov. 31:9

It is a misconception to think that we are above getting involved in social activism. This couldn’t be further from the truth. The Bible is riddled with passages about our duty to our surrounding communities. For example, did you know that the Bible speaks to the issue of poverty in Proverbs 29:7? Those who claim to be righteous through the blood of Jesus should bring relief to all who are afflicted, weak, fatherless, and destitute (Ps. 82:3). Sounds nice, but how does one help those who can’t help themselves?

The first thing to do is see the issues around you. We are naturally selfish, so seeing an issue that affects someone other than us may be difficult. Always take notes on what can be done to bring relief to the community around your house or church. If you can’t see, then ask your local city hall community organizers what you can do to help the city.

The second thing you do after identifying a need is “say something.” Start the conversation and bring awareness to the issue. Some may not even know that there is a need in their own backyard. Bringing awareness to issues in our society brings people that much closer to wanting to help solve those issues. Many of us see an article or post on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Snapchat, and our hearts break. We talk about it with our immediate circle of friends, and then we do nothing.

In America, Homeland Security and many police departments have the slogan “See something, say something.” While it may be enough for those entities, it is not enough for us. Saying something shouldn’t be the extent of your contribution to solving the problem. The next step is to organize and bring relief to those who need it. We must do something now. You don’t have to go far to be of service. Missions are one way of addressing a need, but you can also pour yourself into your surrounding community. We can’t reach people for Christ unless they know we care. So, see the issues, say something, and then organize and do something.

See. Say. Do!

**React**

`1. What are the needs of the community you or your church belongs to?`

`2. What organizations are bringing awareness to the issues?`

`3. How can you help solve the issues in your community?`

---

_Daniel Madden, Alberta, Canada_