---
title:  An Inescapable Responsibility
date:  05/09/2019
---

**Opinion**: Prov. 31:8, 9; Jer. 22:3; Luke 4:18, 19

The first phrase of Proverbs 31:8 reads, “Open your mouth” in the English Standard Version. The New International Version renders it “Speak up,” and it is “Open thy mouth” in the King James Version.

**Scripture is perfectly clear about our individual obligation.**

The term social justice evokes emotions that illuminate two easily conflated realities. First, the term has become politicized, frequently used as a surrogate for policies that benefit racial minorities, LGBTQ+ individuals, women, immigrants, and other marginalized groups. Second, policies that benefit these individuals are generally associated with one particular political party. Together, these twisting realities generate an atmosphere of politically driven hostility toward those who advocate on behalf of these individuals. Many first-world Christians struggle to accept policies that have a social justice flavor.

However, while some Christians would prefer to live out these verses through their political participation, Scripture is perfectly clear about our individual obligation. Open thy mouth. Speak up. This biblical principle is repeated ad nauseam throughout both testaments. As written in Proverbs, this is a two-step process:

First, we must identify who are our mute, our poor, and our needy. This is no easy task. Serious and difficult questions surround merely the scope of this prong. Should we pick out the poor in the world? In our hemisphere? Country? State? County? City? Neighborhood? Block? While the Adventist denomination often has a global institutional emphasis, it may be easier for the individual to maintain a localized focus.

Once we choose a geographic space, we must decide who, within that space, qualifies as the mute, the poor, and the needy. The poor and needy are somewhat self-explanatory, but what about the mute? Sure, this could literally mean “those who cannot speak,” but this may also mean “those who cannot stand up for themselves.” Who these people may be will vary greatly from community to community. However, powerlessness is as universal as sin. Those with the ability to speak must speak. Open thy mouth.

**React**

`1. How should one determine who qualifies as the mute, the poor, and the needy?`

`2. What role does the local church have, as a collective body of voices, in advocating for social justice causes?`

---

_Charles Eaton, Loma Linda, California, USA_