---
title:  Consider Their Cause
date:  06/09/2019
---

**Exploration**: Prov. 29:7

**Conclude**

There is a basic nature to the righteous, and a portion of that is how we respond to the cause of the oppressed. This is not something you do to gain favor with God; it is evidence that the Spirit of the Most High God dwells within you. And here we find that a marker of the wicked is their inability to empathize with those whom God empathizes with. And is not the God of the Bible the God of the oppressed? We would do well to consider our positions on the issues that will define our times.

**Consider**

- Educating yourself. Find documentaries, books, and news articles that challenge your perspectives on hot-button topics such as illegal immigration, overseas conflicts, the global refugee crisis, LBGTQ+ issues, global warming, mass incarceration, and other social justice issues.
- Connecting with needy communities. Immerse yourself in communities that are facing obstacles and oppression and listen to their stories. And after listening to them, ask questions from a place of humility and empathy with a desire to find common ground.
- Getting involved. Ask how you can be of service in communities that have needs and enter the fight as just that, a servant. Remember that they are the experts, and your duty is to use your privileges to assist their cause, not to define their cause for them.
- Challenging others to engage the needs around them. When you come across people in your community, challenge them with your newfound experiences and hold them accountable for their words and actions.
- Defending the weak. If you are out in the streets or online and see someone from an oppressed community being accosted, stand in the gap and defend them. That could look like speaking on their behalf, contacting a manager or a police officer, or escorting that person to safety and waiting with them until the situation has de-escalated.
- Committing yourself to a cause. Find a cause(s) or community that you are passionate about and become a lifelong advocate.
- Remembering why you are involved. Remember that this is true religion.


**Connect**

Deuteronomy 10:18; 27:19; Proverbs 14:31; 28:27; Micah 6:8; Luke 10:30–37.

Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, pp. 25, 26; The Desire of Ages, p. 640.

---

_Robert Allen Bailey, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, USA_