---
title:  Our Forgiving God
date:   09/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week’s lesson
Nehemiah 9:1–3; Nehemiah 9:9–22; Nehemiah 9:23–31.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “If you hide your sins, you will not succeed. If you confess and reject [turn from] them, you will receive [get from God] mercy” (Proverbs 28:13, ICB).

**THE FEAST OF TABERNACLES ENDS**. The Feast of Taber-nacles is a Jewish holy day. As we see, this holy day is a time of joy. It helps the Jews remember everything God did for them in Egypt. He freed them from slavery. Then He took care of them in the desert for 40 years. As we saw last week, the Jews celebrate this day with joy. Now the leaders ask the people to meet together again. It is time for the people to confess their sins to God and turn away from evil.

Earlier, we read that the leaders tell the people to stop crying. They tell them to stop being sad about their sins. That does not mean that our feeling sad about our sins is not important. But first, God wants His people to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles with joy. So, the people obey God. Now it is time for the people to confess.

Sometimes we feel joyful in the Lord first. Then we confess our sins. Other times we confess our sins first. Then we feel joyful in the Lord. Romans 2:4, ERV, says, “God is kind to you so that you will decide to change your lives.” God’s love causes us to feel joy. It also causes us to repent or turn from sin. So, we should praise God for His love and the joy it gives us. At the same time, we also must remember that we need God to forgive our sins. We need God to make us clean and make us new too.

_We should praise God for His love and the joy it gives us._