---
title: 'Worship And Fasting, Or Not Eating Any Food, For A Short Time'
date: 10/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`In Nehemiah 9:1–3, we learn that God’s people separate themselves from all foreigners or non-Jews. Why do God’s people do that?`

Nehemiah wants the people to feel that this time is a time of joy. So, he wants the people to feel joyful. Then Nehemiah leads God’s people in a fast. A fast, as we saw, is a time when a person decides to stop eating food for a short while. People often fast for spiritual reasons. So, when they fast, the people ask God to take the pride out of their hearts. They throw dust on their heads. They put on clothes that people wear to funerals. The people also separate themselves from foreigners. Why? Because the Jews know that God needs to forgive them for their sins. The foreigners are not guilty of the sins that God’s people did. God’s people confess the sins they did as a country that caused God to punish them 70 years earlier. That was the time when the Babylonians destroyed Jerusalem. Then the Babylonians carried the Jews away as prisoners to Babylon.

God’s people pray and confess. Their prayers show that they deeply understand what sin is. They understand that sin is awful. Do God’s people feel angry that their grandfathers and grandmothers sinned and caused God to punish them? Do they spend time complaining about their leaders and the bad decisions they made in the past? Do they blame their leaders for not being holy? Or blame them for the evil they did that caused them to be where they are right now? No, they do not get mad about the sins that happened in the past. They do not hate their own people who caused them to be carried away as slaves. They turn to God. They let go of pride. They confess their sins.

Nehemiah 9:3 says that the people read from the Book of the Law, or Torah, for about four hours. Then for four more hours, they confess sin and worship God. Do you see how important reading the Bible is? When we read the Bible, God comes near to us. The Holy Spirit speaks to us and teaches us. Bible truth changes our thoughts. Truth makes us wise. The Bible encourages us and lifts us up. The Jews also cry. Why? Because when we spend time with God, we see how good and beautiful He is. We feel awe that the One who made us wants to be with us, even if we make mistakes.

_When we read the Bible, God comes near to us._
