---
title:  THE BEGINNING OF THE PRAYER
date:   11/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The leaders read the Book of the Law, or the Torah, to the people. Then the people pray a long prayer. What do they pray about? They talk about God’s love. They say that God is good to His people, even when His people do not obey Him. Their prayer is more of a sermon than a prayer. 

`Read the prayer of God’s people in Nehemiah 9:4–8. What are the important ideas that we read about in the opening verses? Why do you think these ideas come first?`

In the first part of the prayer, the people bless God and His name. In Bible times, Hebrew names were special. They were more than a word that someone was called. Names showed who a person was or what was in his heart. God’s name shows us who He is. That is why God’s people praise God’s name. His name shows everyone on earth that God is worthy of praise and honor. It is the name of the One who made everything there is in heaven and on earth. So, the prayer starts with worship to God as the One who makes everything. He is the One who “ ‘give[s] life to everything’ ” (Nehemiah 9:6, ERV; read also Colossians 1:16, 17). The word “gives” comes from a Hebrew verb. It means to “keep something alive.” So, God is the One who keeps everything alive.

This same God chose Abraham. What made Abraham so special? God chose him because Abraham had a heart filled with faith. True, there were many times in Abraham’s past when he did not seem to have much faith. But remember what happened when God asked Abraham to give up his only son, Isaac? Abraham did not disobey God (read Genesis 22). Abraham learned to live by faith. Abraham did not learn this lesson about faith overnight. He learned over a lifetime to have a heart filled with faith. In Hebrew thinking, the “heart” is a word picture for the mind. So, Abraham learned how to have faith in his mind. He lived this faith. God accepted Abraham because of his faith.

The people start their prayer by saying that God is (1) the One who made us. (2) He is the One who keeps us alive. (3) He keeps His promises. We must remember these three things about God too. Then we will learn to trust Him during hard times when He seems far away from us.

`Why is it important to remember that God made us?`

_God is the One who keeps everything alive._