---
title:  LESSONS FROM THE PAST
date:   12/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read the next part of the prayer in Nehemiah 9:9–22. How is this part of the prayer different from the first part?`

The prayer changes. First, the people start out by praising God for His love. Then the people say that the Israelites were very evil after God freed them from Egypt. The people talk about how the Israelites did not obey God in the desert for 40 years. The people name all the wonderful things God gave the Israelites during that time. But what did their fathers do? Their hearts were filled with pride. They were stubborn people. They did not care about the kind and good acts that God did for them.

When we come back to God, we must tell Him how we failed Him. We must accept the truth about our sins. We must understand that we were not loyal to Him in the past. These are important things we must do when we confess our sins and turn away from them. 

We must confess our sins, yes. But remember, our confessing does not save us. Only our faith in Jesus’ death on the cross saves us. What makes us right with God? It is our belief that we are made right with God by our faith in Jesus alone. “We accept Jesus as our Savior. That happens when we say we are sorry for our sins and turn away from them. Then the Lord forgives us. He removes the punishment from us for breaking His law. The sinner then stands in front of God as a person who is clean from sin. This person now finds favor with God. The Holy Spirit joins this person in fellowship with the Father and the Son.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, page 191, adapted.

Yes, God’s love causes us to confess our sins. His love also causes us to turn away from them too. So, we must be willing by God’s power to give up our sins.

The people’s prayer shows that they understood what happened in the past. The Israelites in the past were stubborn. God was loving. The people look back over all that God did for their people in the past. What do they see? They see that He will continue to take care of them now and in the future. So, that is why it is so important for the people always to remember how God acted in the past. When they did not remember, they got into trouble.

`Maybe you feel discouraged. Or maybe you feel afraid about the future. But why must you trust in God anyway?`

_Only our faith in Jesus’ death on the cross saves us._