---
title: 'The Law And The Prophets God S Special Messengers'
date: 13/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 9:23–31. What do these verses tell us about the Israelites? How are they different from God?`

This next part of the prayer looks at the history of the Israelites in Canaan, or the Promised Land. God gave them land, cities, grape gardens, and fields ready to use. But the people did not appreciate God’s gifts. At the end of Nehemiah 9:25, ERV, we read that the Israelites “ ‘ate until they were full and fat.’ ” The words “ ‘full and fat’ ” have a special meaning in the Bible. They are used only a few times (read also Deuteronomy 32:15 and Jeremiah 5:28). Each time this description is used, it shows us something bad about someone.

Yes, the people “ ‘enjoyed all the wonderful things [God] gave them’ ” (Nehemiah 9:25, ERV). But the people cared more about the things God gave them than they cared about God Himself. Our having a lot of stuff does not always bring us closer to God, does it? Many times, we may think, “Oh, if only I had this or that. Then I would be happy.” God gave the old-time Israelites everything they needed. But their “happiness” in those things did not make them love God more. Too often it is easy for us to think about the gifts God gives us. But we do not remember the Giver. That is a mistake.

Of course, God wants us to be happy with the things He gives us. He wants us to be joyful about the gifts He gives us. But our joy in the things He gives us does not mean we will be close to God. If we are not careful, these things can pull us away from Him.

What else do we learn about in Nehemiah 9? We see that the leaders now confess all the ways that they did not follow God in the past. The leaders look back at their country’s history. They see the sins they did as a people. What are two of their biggest sins? Israel (1) threw God’s law away. And (2) they attacked God’s prophets, or special messengers. The leaders confess these sins to God. 

The leaders see that God’s law and His prophets are important. These two things help the Jews become a holy people. Their prayer shows this idea when the leaders say, “ ‘If people obey your laws, they will live’ ” (Nehemiah 9:29, ERV). Here, the leaders say again Moses’ words in Leviticus 18:5: God gives us His law to bless our lives. 

_Our having a lot of stuff does not always bring us closer to God._