---
title:  PRAISE AND ASKING
date:   14/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the end of the prayer in Nehemiah 9:32–38. How does the prayer end? What is the most important idea?`

Again, the people praise God for who He is. He is strong and wonderful. He keeps His Covenant, or Special Agreement, with His people. He shows them mercy. 

The people also ask God for something in their prayer. What do they want? Let us read about it:

“ ‘Our God, you are the great [powerful] God. You are mighty and wonderful. You keep the covenant [special agreement] you made with us. You show us your love. So don’t [do not] let all our suffering seem like [the same as] a small thing to you’ ” (Nehemiah 9:32, NIrV). 

The Jewish community in Jerusalem must pay taxes to the Persian kings who rule over them. Plus, their enemies keep attacking them. The Jews are tired of the attacks and the taxes. They ask God to put a stop to their troubles.

How do God’s servants talk about their experience at this time? They say, “ ‘We are in a lot of trouble’ ” (Nehemiah 9:37, ERV). They compare their troubles now to the troubles that the Israelites had in Egypt (Nehemiah 9:9). They say their troubles are the same. God’s people now ask God to help save them as He saved His people in the past. They know they have done nothing good to earn God’s help. No one in the past was loyal to God. The kings, princes, priests or holy leaders, and early fathers are not loyal to God. No one is loyal. So, the Jews ask God to show them mercy. Even if they are not worthy of it.

`Read Romans 5:6–8. How do these verses show us what the Jews in Nehemiah’s time wanted God to give them? What comfort and hope do these verses give us?`

_The Jews ask God to show them mercy. Even if they are not worthy of it._