---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 15/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “Confes-sion,” pages 37–41, in Steps to Christ.

In Nehemiah 9:25, the Jews talk about how their people enjoyed all the good things God gave them in the past. Another way of writing “enjoyed” is to say the people “took pleasure” in all God’s gifts. The word “enjoyed” or “took pleasure” comes from the same Hebrew word for the name “Eden” (Genesis 2:15). The word “Eden” means pleasure. So, the Garden of Eden was really the Garden of Pleasure.

“Eden” is a wonderful word picture for God’s plan to make all things new. The Hebrew people were part of God’s plan too. God chose the Hebrew people to be His special people. He wanted to help them make a new Eden on this earth. But the people did not obey God. They became slaves in Babylon. Did God give up His dream for His people? No. We see that God continues to want His plan for His people to work. He promises them, “So the Lord will comfort Jerusalem. He will show mercy to those [people] who live in her ruins. He will change her deserts into a garden like [the same as] Eden” (Isaiah 51:3, ICB). 

Yes, old-time Israel enjoyed the blessings and gifts God gave them. Many of these blessings and gifts showed them and the people around them a small piece of Eden. God gave these gifts to His people because He wanted them to enjoy them. And old-time Israel did. Their sin was not that they enjoyed God’s gifts. Their sin was that they did not remember God (Ezekiel 23:35). Then God’s blessings ended. God did not give His people gifts only to make them happy. God wanted His people to use His gifts to show His love to the people around them.  

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Read Jesus’ words in Matthew 13:22. What does Jesus warn His followers about in these verses? Why is the “love for money” (Matthew 13:22, ERV) so dangerous?`

`2. In Nehemiah 9, the people talk about the Lord as the One who made them and keeps everything alive. Why is this truth so important to our faith?`

`3. We know we are sinners. At the same time, we must not let that cause us to lose hope that God can save us. What can we do to keep our faith strong in His power to save us?`

_“Eden” is a wonderful word picture for God’s plan to make all things new._