---
title:  “ ‘The Holy Spirit Will Come to You’ ”
date:   30/06/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 1:6–8; Luke 24:25; Luke 24:44–48; Deuteronomy 19:15; Acts 1:9–26; Proverbs 16:33.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘But the Holy Spirit will come to you. Then you will receive power. You will be my witnesses—in Jerusalem, in all of Judea, in Samaria, and in every part of the world’ ” (Acts 1:8, ICB).

IN ACTS 1, Jesus promises His followers that soon God will send to them the Holy Spirit to give them power. The Spirit will help Jesus’ followers do a special work to reach people all over the earth. The Spirit will do many miracles. Then people everywhere will know that this special work comes from God. Jesus cannot stay on this earth in a human body with His followers forever. His human body puts limits on the things that Jesus can do for His followers. Also, Jesus needs to go to heaven so that the Spirit can come to this earth and be with God’s people.

But God’s people do not clearly understand these things until after Jesus wakes up from the dead and comes back to life. Jesus’ followers give up everything to follow Him. Jesus’ followers believe He will get rid of the Romans and make Israel a powerful kingdom again. It is not easy for Jesus’ followers to think in a different way.

In Acts 1, we read about Jesus’ last lesson to His followers. Jesus promises to give them the Holy Spirit. Acts 1 also tells us Jesus goes to heaven and how the New Testament church gets ready for the Holy Spirit’s coming.