---
title:  A New Israel 
date:   01/07/2018
---

The Old Testament promises Israel that God will send them the Messiah. The Messiah is God’s Chosen One. God chose the Messiah to save His people. But save them from what? Some verses in the Old Testament promise that the Messiah also is a king. This king will rule forever (Psalm 89:3, 4, 35–37). Other verses about the Messiah promise a Savior who will die for the sins of His people (Isaiah 52:13–53:12; Daniel 9:26). These different promises about the Messiah do not disagree with each other. Instead, they tell us about the different parts of the Messiah’s work. First, the Messiah will suffer. Then the Messiah will become King (Luke 17:24, 25; Luke 24:25, 26).

But the problem with the Jews in Jesus’s time is that they hope for a Messiah who will save them from the Romans. This false hope causes the Jews to not understand that the Messiah will come to suffer and die for our sins. 

At first, Jesus’ followers tell the Jews about their hope for a Messiah who will be a powerful king on earth. They believe Jesus is this king (Matthew 16:16, 20). Sometimes Jesus’ followers fight with each other about who will sit next to Jesus’ throne when He becomes king (Mark 10:35–37; Luke 9:46). Jesus warns His followers about His suffering and death. But His followers do not understand what He means. So, when Jesus dies, His followers become confused. They have no hope (read Luke 24:21).

`What does Acts 1:6 tell us that Jesus’ followers do not understand? In Acts 1:7, how does Jesus answer?`Jesus’ death destroys His followers’ hope that He is the Messiah. But then they see Him alive again, and they start to hope. They now believe strongly that Jesus will become King of Israel on this earth and end Roman power. 

Jesus’ answer is very interesting. He says nothing about giving the kingdom back to Israel. He also says nothing about becoming Israel’s King. Instead, Jesus tells His followers to remember that only God knows the time when He will do the things He promises. No human can know when. 

`As Luke 24:25 shows us, what is the real problem with Jesus’ followers? Why is it easy to believe what we want to believe instead of looking for the truth the Bible teaches? How can we escape this trap?`