---
title:  The Special Work Jesus Gives His Followers To Do
date:   02/07/2018
---

`Read Acts 1:8. As these verses show us, what does Jesus ask His followers to do?`

Acts 1:8 tells us about the work Jesus gave His followers. There are four important parts to this work:

1. The Holy Spirit. The Spirit always worked for God’s people. But God’s messengers in the Old Testament tell us about a time in the future when God will give the Holy Spirit to His people in a special way (Isaiah 44:3; Joel 2:28, 29). The Spirit already filled Jesus during His work on earth (Luke 4:18–21). But God the Father pours His Spirit on Jesus’ followers after God honors Jesus in heaven (John 7:39; Acts 2:33). 
2. Witness. A witness is someone who sees something happen with his or her own eyes. Jesus’ followers are His witnesses (Acts 1:21, 22; Acts 4:20; also read 1 John 1:1–3). Now Jesus commands His followers to share with everyone on Earth their special experience with Him.
3. The Plan for the Special Work. Jesus orders His followers to witness in Jerusalem first. Then they must witness in Judea and Samaria next. Finally, Jesus tells His followers to take the Good News to everyone. Jerusalem is the center of Jewish religious life. But Jesus dies on the cross outside the city gate. Jesus also works outside the city in Judea and Samaria. So, Jesus’ followers must work in other places too. They must go everywhere on Earth.
4. The Audience for the Special Work. In Old Testament times, God planned for the people and countries around Israel to come to Him. God did not plan for Israel to go out to the different nations and preach about Him. (God’s special messenger Jonah is an example of someone who takes God’s message to other people. But that does not happen very often.) But in the New Testament, things change. Yes, Jerusalem is the center of religion for Jesus’ believers. But they must not stay there. Instead, God sends the believers to share the Good News with everyone on Earth. 

`Read Luke 24:44–48. What message does Jesus give to His followers to preach?`

`Jesus spends 40 days with His followers after He comes back to life (Acts 1:3). He explains many Bible truths to them. Now His followers understand the truth more clearly.`