---
title:  He Will Come Again 
date:   03/07/2018
---

`Read Acts 1:9–11. How does Luke, in Acts 1:9–11, describe Jesus’ going up to heaven? After Jesus goes to heaven, two angels meet with Jesus’ followers. What special meaning does this meeting have? (Read Deuteronomy 19:15.)`

We must understand that Luke describes what happens here in human words. The only way Luke can describe Jesus’ leaving the earth is by saying Jesus goes up in the air. 

Jesus’ going to heaven is a miracle from God. Luke uses the verb _“eperthe”_ to show us that Jesus’ leaving is a miracle. “Eperthe” shows us that Jesus does not lift Himself up into heaven. Instead, Someone is lifting Jesus: “he was lifted up into the sky” (Acts 1:9, ERV). The only time we find “eperthe” in the New Testament is in this verse. But we find “eperthe” several times in the Greek Old Testament. The Greek Old Testament uses “eperthe” to mean the actions of God. So, when we understand the meaning of “eperthe” in the Greek Old Testament, we understand what this word means in the New Testament. “Eperthe” helps us see that God Himself takes Jesus up to heaven. “Eperthe” also shows us that God is the One who wakes Jesus up from the dead (Acts 2:24, 32; Romans 6:4). But in John 10:18, Jesus says He has the power to get back His own life after He dies: “ ‘My Father has given Me this right [something Jesus can do because the power is already His] and power’ ” (NLV). At the same time, this verse also shows us that Jesus’ power to get His life back again comes from God too. 

A cloud hides Jesus as He goes up. Then Luke tells us about the two angels standing next to Jesus’ followers. Luke is the only Bible writer to tell us about the angels. They wear white clothes. The angels tell Jesus’ followers that Jesus will come back the same way He goes up. He goes up to heaven “while [His followers] were watching” (Acts 1:9, ERV). 

The way Jesus’ followers see Him go up to heaven in a cloud is a promise that Jesus will come back to Earth in the clouds. Yes, Jesus’ Second Coming will happen in the clouds “with power and much greatness” (Luke 21:27, NLV). “ ‘Everyone will see him’ ” (Revelation 1:7, ERV). Jesus will not be alone (Luke 9:26; 2 Thessalonians 1:7). The power and glory of the Second Coming will be far more than the power and glory that Jesus’ followers saw when He went up to heaven after waking up from the dead.