---
title:  Getting Ready For The Holy Spirit To Come
date:   04/07/2018
---

In Acts 1:7, 8, Jesus answers His followers’ question about when He will come back. Jesus does not say when that will be. But we see in Jesus’ words a hint that He will come back after the Spirit comes and His followers finish their work (read Matthew 24:14). The angels’ words to Jesus’ followers do not answer the question about when Jesus’ kingdom will come. But the angels’ words hint that Jesus’ kingdom will come soon. This idea explains why Jesus’ followers go “back to Jerusalem very happy” (Luke 24:52, ERV). They believe the end will happen soon. 

`Read Acts 1:12–14. As we learn from these verses, who is there in the upstairs room? How do the people in the upstairs room get ready for the Holy Spirit’s coming?`

Jesus’ followers come back from the Mount of Olives. Then they gather together in the guestroom upstairs in a house in Jerusalem. Some women followers of Jesus also are there (Luke 8:1–3; Acts 23:49; Acts 24:1–12). Jesus’ mother and brothers are there, too, with Jesus’ followers.

Who are Jesus’ brothers (Mark 6:3)? The Bible gives us good reasons to believe that Jesus’ brothers were the older sons of Joseph from his first marriage. We know that Mary could not be their mother because Jesus was Mary’s firstborn son (Matthew 1:18–23; Luke 1:34, 35). Ellen G. White agrees. She says that Jesus’ brothers were “older than Jesus.”—The Desire of Ages, page 87, adapted. Anyway, the fact that Jesus’ brothers join Jesus’ followers in the upstairs room is a big surprise. Jesus’ brothers always doubted Jesus was God’s Chosen One (Mark 3:21; John 7:5). But Jesus’ coming back to life from the dead seems to change them. Also, Jesus makes a special appearance to his brother James (1 Corinthians 15:7). Later, James takes Peter’s place as the leader of the Christian community (Acts 12:17; Acts 15:13; Acts 21:18; Galatians 2:9, 12).

The people in the upstairs room pray a lot (Acts 1:14). They also go to the temple to praise God (Luke 24:53). It is clear that Jesus’ followers confess their sins to God and change their behavior. They get ready for God to give His Spirit to them.

`What can we do every day to get ready for the Holy Spirit to do His work in our lives?`