---
title:  Jesus’ Twelfth Follower
date:   05/07/2018
---

The first thing that the new Christian church does is choose someone to take Judas’s place. At that time, the Christian church was a group of 120 believers (Acts 1:15).

`Read Acts 1:21, 22. As these verses show us, what experience does the person taking Judas’s place need to have? Why is this experience so important?`

The person taking Judas’s place needs to be someone who saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead (read Acts 4:33). This experience is very important because Jesus’ coming back to life proves that the Christian faith is true. It also proves that Jesus is the Messiah. The Messiah is the Savior that God chose to save His people from sin. 

Jesus’ followers decide to choose someone who also was with them during Jesus’ work on earth. This person will become the new apostle. The apostles were the twelve followers of Jesus that later became the leaders and teachers of the church after Jesus woke up from the dead and went to heaven. Paul is an interesting example because he is the only apostle who did not followed Jesus during His work on earth. But Paul says that he is Jesus’ apostle anyway in the same way as the twelve apostles are. Why does Paul say that? Because Paul meets Jesus on the road to Damascus. This meeting gives Paul the power to witness to other people about the truth that Jesus woke up from the dead (1 Corinthians 9:1). Paul does not see himself as less experienced or skilled than Jesus’ other apostles (1 Corinthians 9:2; Galatians 2:6–9). Paul and the Twelve men Jesus chose were apostles (Acts 1:25, 26). The most basic meaning of the word “apostle” is messenger. The word sometimes is used for a few other workers who tell other people the Good News (2 Corinthians 8:23; Philippians 2:25).

`As we see in Acts 1:23–26, how do the church leaders choose Matthias?`

The believers pray to God to know His plan. “Then they drew names and the name of Matthias was chosen” (Acts 1:26, NLV).

`How can you know God’s plan for your life?`