---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/07/2018
---

“God gives His Holy Spirit to the first believers after Jesus goes back to heaven. From that time until the Second Coming, God asks believers to do a worldwide work. This work is sharing the Good News about Jesus. The Holy Spirit will give the church power to share the Good News. After Jesus goes back to heaven, His followers announce the things that Jesus does at His first coming. Jesus’ followers also invite people to turn away from sin and get ready for Jesus’ Second Coming. Jesus asks His followers to do these things after He goes back to heaven. Jesus’ followers are His witnesses “from one end of the earth to the other” (Acts 1:8, NIrV) until the end of time. As Christians today, we must not stop until all the people on the earth have learned the Good News.”—John R. W. Stott, The Message of Acts: The Spirit, the Church & [and] the World [all the people on the earth] (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 1990), page 44, adapted. 

“Jesus’ command to His followers includes all the believers. It includes all who believe in Jesus to the end of time. We must not make the mistake of thinking that the work of saving souls belongs only to pastors. God asks every believer to share the Good News with other people. Everyone who gets a new life from Jesus will be led by God’s Spirit to help God save souls. This work is the reason that God started the church on earth. Everyone who joins the church is a partner with Jesus. Together, Jesus and His believers work together to save souls.”—Ellen G. white, The Desire of Ages, page 822, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	In Acts 1:7 Jesus says to His followers, “ ‘The Father is the only One who has the authority [power] to decide dates and times. These things are not for you to know’ ” (ICB). Ellen G. White says: “God’s people are not allowed to know the exact time when the Holy Spirit will be poured out or when Jesus will come back again.”—Selected Messages, volume 1, page 188, adapted. She also says: “Any person who begins to announce the hour, day, or year that Jesus will come back is announcing a message that does not come from God.”—Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, September 12, 1893, adapted. What do these words from Ellen G. White and the Bible tell us today?`

`2.	How important is prayer in the early church?`