---
title:  The Prerequisite
date:  28/03/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Jeremiah 29:11–14b

The Prerequisite

Why would anyone not want to know God’s will for his or her life? After all, if God is all-knowing and all-caring, shouldn’t we be jumping up and down to find out what that plan is? But human history does not attest to this. Humanity has desired supernatural knowledge, insights, secrets, and understanding. Once this knowledge has been acquired (if at all), however, the human response has been, “I’m good; that’s enough; I would rather choose something (or someone) else.” Sometimes it’s called rationalization, or curiosity, or human philosophy; and at other times it’s just plain arrogance. This is because the core of the human heart is sinful and carnal. We don’t want what’s good for us; we want what we think we want, which usually means we cannot choose good in and of itself.

When presented with the divine will, the selfish response is to choose the alternative, or option B. Sometimes God goes forward with His scenario, knowing full well that humanity will reject it. The foreknowledge of God does not prevent Him from doing so—the love of God for humanity overrides. In other words, God doesn’t act from what He knows but from who He is: love. The problem is not on God’s end, because He always acts out of love. The problem lies with humanity, which acts out of selfishness and doubt of God’s love.

The first week of this study deals with the prerequisite to knowing the will of God.

#### inScribe

Write out Jeremiah 29:11–14b from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``