---
title:  Beyond the Lesson
date:   01/03/2019
---

Just as God manifests Himself in a triune way the entities of the enemy do the same to try and become the antithesis of God and His work.

* God’s seal (Rev. 7:1-4, 14:1-3) is counterfeited by the mark of the beast (Rev. 13:16-17).

* The three angel’s messages (Rev. 14:6-12) are counterfeited by the three unclean spirits (Rev. 16:13-14).

* The bride of Christ or the New Jerusalem (Rev. 21) is counterfeited by the unclean woman or city of Babylon (Rev. 17-18).

They also become an antithesis for His personal manifestation

* The dragon is a counterfeit of God the Father.

  * Used to live in heaven (Rev. 12:7-9) - God lives in heaven (Ps. 11:4).

  * Has a throne (Rev. 13:2) - God has a throne (Rev 4-5).

  * Gives power, throne, and authority to the sea beast (Rev 13:2,4) - God gives all those to Jesus (Rev. 2:27, 3:21).

* The sea beast is a counterfeit of Jesus the Son. See Sunday’s lesson for details

  * The land beast is a counterfeit of the Holy Spirit.

  * Land beast is lamb-like (Rev. 13:11) - Holy Spirit is a comforter like Jesus (Jn. 14:26, 16:14).

  * Land beast tells people to worship sea beast (Rev. 13:12,15) - Holy Spirit tells people to worship Jesus (Jn. 16:13-14).

  * Land beast works miracles (Rev. 13:13, 19:20) - Holy Spirit works miracles (Acts 4:30-31).

  * Land beast brings fire from heaven (Rev. 13:13) - Holy Spirit brings fire from heaven (Acts 2:1-4).

  * Land beast gives life to the beast’s image (Rev. 13:15) - Holy Spirit gives life (Gen. 2:7, Jn. 3:8, Rom 8:11).

  * Land beast gives a mark to its followers (Rev. 13:16) - Holy Spirit gives a mark to His followers (Eph. 1:13, 4:30, Rev. 7:3)
