---
title:  Law and Faith
date:   30/07/2017
---

_Galatians 3:15–18_

God gave the law to Israel more than 400 years after Abraham lived. But did the giving of the law cause the promises of God to Abraham to lose their value?

`In Galatians 3:15–18, Paul explains the meaning of God’s covenant. A covenant is an agreement. So, to explain what a covenant is, Paul uses the word picture of a person’s final will. A will is a legal paper. It says who should receive what a person owns after that person dies.Why does Paul use this comparison to help explain God’s covenant? What point is Paul making?`

For the most part, a covenant and a will are very different. A covenant often is called a contract or a treaty. But a will is a statement made by one person. The Greek translation of the Old Testament (the Septuagint) never uses the Greek word for contracts (syntheke) to mean God’s covenant with Abraham. Instead, the Septuagint uses the word for a will (diatheke). Why? Maybe the translators understood that God’s covenant with Abraham was not a treaty. In a treaty, both sides make promises that they must keep. But God’s covenant is not set up on anything Abraham promises. It is set up only on what God wants to do. And Abraham is to take God at His word.

Paul is aware that “will” is used to mean “covenant.” He uses this double meaning to explain parts of God’s agreement with Abraham. For example, both a will and God’s promise are made to someone. In this case, it is Abraham and his children (Genesis 12:1–5;Galatians 3:16).A will also names who shall receive goods or money (Genesis 13:15; Genesis 17:8; Romans 4:13; Galatians 3:29). Most important to Paul is the fact that God’s promises do not change. In the same way, a person’s will cannot be changed once it has gone into effect. This fact helps explain that the law God gave to Moses did not end the agreement made earlier with Abraham. For God is not a promise breaker (Isaiah 46:11).

`Replace the word “covenant” with “promise” in Genesis 9:11–17; Genesis 15:18; and Genesis 17:1–21. What does each covenant include? God’s covenant is a promise. How does that idea make the verses clearer? How does it help us understand what a covenant is? What does the covenant teach us about who God is and why we can trust Him?`