---
title:  Faith and Law
date:   31/07/2017
---

_Romans 3:31_

Paul argues strongly for the importance of faith in a person’s relationship with God. No works of the law are needed to save us. Paul is clear on this point. For “No one is made right with God by obeying the law” (Galatians 2:16, NIrV). Works of the law do not show clearly what a believer is. Instead, faith does. But we must ask: Does that truth mean the law has no value? Did God get rid of the law?

`Salvation is by faith. It is not by doing the works of the law. So does Paul mean to say that faith destroys the law? How do these verses help answer that question: Romans 3:31; Romans 7:7, 12; Romans 8:3; and Matthew 5:17–20?`

Paul’s argument in Romans 3 is the same as the one he makes about faith and law in Galatians. Paul knows that his words might lead some to think he is putting faith above law. So, Paul asks a question, “Does faith make the law useless?” (Romans 3:31, NIrV). The wording “make the law useless” comes from the Greek word katargeo. Paul uses this word often. It can be translated as “cancel” (CEB), “brought an end to” (Ephesians 2:15, GW), “set aside” (NIrV), “brought to nothing” (Romans 6:6, ESV), or even “destroy” (1 Corinthians 6:13, NIrV). Suppose Paul wanted to support the idea that the law was set aside at the Cross. Some people accused Paul of doing this very thing. But Paul says the law was not set aside. Instead, he says his gospel “sets up” the law (see Romans 3:31)!

“The plan of being saved by faith shows God’s love for His law. His law demanded and provided an offering for sin. Suppose being made right with God set the law aside.Then there would be no need for the cleansing death of Christ to free the sinner from sin and set him at peace with God.

“Also, true faith means fully following God and obeying His law. Real faith starts with loving God with one’s whole heart. Such faith can lead only to obedience.”—Adapted, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 510.

`Suppose that faith did do away with the law. Would that mean that stealing or murder or sex outside of marriage no longer would be sin? Think of all the sorrow, pain, and suffering you could avoid if you obeyed God’s law. What suffering have you and others experienced as a result of breaking God’s law?`