---
title:  The purpose of the Law
date:   01/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:19–29_

`In Galatians 3:19–29, Paul mentions “the law” many times. Which law does Paul mean?`

Some think the word “until” in verse 19 (NIrV) means the law mentioned here was not lasting. So, they believe these verses must be talking about the ceremonial law. The ceremonial law governed the law of animal sacrifices and other offerings made in the temple. The need for that law came to an end with Jesus’ death on the cross. But Paul is making a different point here. It is true that sin made two laws necessary: the ceremonial law and the moral law. The moral law is the Ten Commandments. And as we shall see, Paul has the moral law mostly in mind in these verses.

`Read Galatians 3:19 and Romans 5:13, 20. Why does Paul say the law was added? And what was the law added to?`

Paul is not saying the law was added to God’s covenant with Abraham in the same way that new requirements are added to a will. The law was around long before Sinai. So the law was given to Israel for a completely different purpose: to bring people back to God and His grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. God offers this grace to all who come to Him by faith. The law shows us how sinful we are. It shows us our need of grace. The law was not meant to be a way of “earning” salvation. Instead, Paul says the law was given “so that sin would increase” (Romans 5:20, NIrV). What do those words mean? They mean the law was given to show us more clearly the sin in our lives (Romans 7:13).

The ceremonial law pointed to Jesus. It showed the need for holiness and for a Savior. But the moral law, with its “You shall nots,” shows us sin.It shows sin is a part of us.And sin breaks God’s law (Romans 3:20; Romans 5:13, 20; Romans 7:7, 8, 13). That is why Paul says, “Where there is no law, the law [cannot] be broken” (Romans 4:15, NIrV). “The law works like a magnifying glass. A magnifying glass does not add to the number of dirty spots on a piece of clothing. No. It makes the spots stand out more clearly. It shows many more of them than one is able to see with the eye alone.”—Adapted, William Hendriksen, New Testament Commentary, Exposition [Explanation] of Galatians (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Book House, 1968), page 141.