---
title:  How long the Law lasts
date:   02/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:16–19_

`Read Genesis 9:5, 6; Genesis 18:19; Genesis 26:5; Genesis 39:7–10; and Exodus 16:22–26. Paul says the law was added at Mount Sinai. Does that mean there was no law before this time? If not, what was the difference in the law before and after Mount Sinai?`

God did not need to show His law to Abraham with thunder, lightning, and the punishment of death (Exodus 19:10–23). So, why did God give the law to the people of Israel in this way? Because Israel forgot how great God and His law were. So, the people needed to be reminded of how sinful they were and how holy God’s law was.

`Read Galatians 3:16–19. Paul says the law was supposed to control us “until the promised Seed [Christ] had come” (verse 19, NIrV). What does Paul mean?`

Many believe this verse means the law given at Mount Sinai would last only for a limited time. So, they say the law came 430 years after Abraham and ended when Christ came. But this idea goes against what Paul says about the law in Romans and what Jesus says in Matthew 5:17–19.

The mistake readers make with Galatians 3:16–19 is to think that the word “until” always means a limited amount of time. But that idea is not true. For example, Jesus says, “ ‘Just hold on to what you have until I come’ ” (Revelation 2:25, NIrV). Does Jesus mean that once He comes we no longer need to be faithful? Of course not!

The importance of the law did not end with the coming of Christ. He is the “Seed” Paul talked about. The law always will point out sin. So Paul is saying that the coming of Christ marks an important turning point in history. Christ can do what the law never could. He can “cure” the disease of sin. He can make sinners right with God. Through His Spirit, Christ can honor His law in us (Romans 8:3, 4).

`Think of all the signs of God’s power the Israelites saw at Mount Sinai. But what did they still do? What should their sin tell us about what true faith is? How do we get true faith and keep it? Read Colossians 2:6 for a hint.`