---
title:  How very great God’s promise is
date:   03/08/2017
---

_Genesis 15:1–6_

In Galatians 3:19, 20, Paul continues to talk about how the law does not destroy the first agreement made between God and His people. This point is important. Why? Suppose Paul’s attackers were right.Then the law would destroy the covenant. But let us take that possibility one step further. Suppose the agreement were destroyed. Then we would need to obey the law to be saved. And then we would be without hope.

Paul’s basic point in Galatians 3:19, 20 is clear. The law supports the promise of grace. The law was given through angels and Moses (Deuteronomy 33:2; Acts 7:53; Hebrews 2:2). So, Moses was a go-between. He received God’s law and gave it to the people. In a letter to Timothy, Paul uses this word “go-between” (1 Timothy 2:5, NIrV). He uses it to mean Christ. But what Paul says in Galatians 3:19, 20 strongly leads many Bible thinkers to believe he has Moses and his words in Deuteronomy 5:5 in mind. In this verse, Moses says, “ ‘At that time I stood between the LORD and you. I announced to you the LORD’s message’ ” (NIrV).

Now, what happened when the law was given was powerful. Many angels attended. God gave the law to the people through Moses. But God made His promise to Abraham (and to all believers) without a go-between. There was no need for one. And in the end, the law cannot take the place of God’s promise that we are saved by grace through faith. Instead, the law helps us better understand just how wonderful God’s promise really is.

`Read Genesis 15:1–6; Genesis 18:1–33; and Genesis 22:1–18. What kind of meetings did Abraham have with God? What profit did those meetings with God have for Abraham?`

`Think about some of the other meetings God had with people in the Bible. For example, God met with Adam and Eve in Eden (Genesis 3). And what about Jacob’s ladder (Genesis 28) or Paul on the road to Damascus (Acts 9)? Maybe you have not experienced anything so exciting. But in what ways has God shown Himself to you? What things in your life might be holding you back from having the kind of experience with God that Abraham had? What steps can you take to change that?`