---
title:  Additional thought
date:   04/08/2017
---

“The people of Israel had lost much of their knowledge of God and His covenant during their time as slaves in Egypt. But God set them free. He wanted to show them His power and His mercy so that they would love and trust Him. God brought them to the Red Sea. There the Egyptians chased them down. Escape seemed impossible. God wanted them to realize how completely helpless they were and how much they needed His help.And then He saved them. They were filled with love for God and thankfulness.They trusted in His power to help them.He tied Himself to them as their Deliverer from their slavery on earth.

“But there was still a greater truth the people needed to learn. They had lived among those who worshiped idols. These idol worshipers sinned greatly against God. So God’s people had no real idea of how holy God was or how sinful their own hearts were. They did not realize they had no power to obey God’s law on their own. They did not know how much they needed a Savior.” —Adapted, Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Forefathers and leaders] and Prophets [Special messengers], page 371.

“The law of God was spoken in great majesty from Sinai. The law pointed to the sinner’s guilt. The law is meant to point out sin. But there is no power in the law to forgive or save.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1094.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Think about the topic of promises. How do you feel toward people who break their promises to you? How much difference does it make when someone makes you a promise he or she cannot keep or when someone changes his or her mind about keeping it? How well are you able to trust either person afterward? What does it mean to you to know you can trust God’s promises? How can you learn to trust His promises in the first place?`

`2. In what ways do the things around us cause us to lose sight of the important truths God has given us? How can we protect ourselves from this danger?`

**Summary**: The giving of the law on Sinai did not do away with the promise God made to Abraham. Nor did the law change the agreement. The law was given so that people might see how truly sinful they are and how much they need Christ’s promise to Abraham and his children.