---
title:  Awe-Inspiration
date:  17/10/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Job 28:12–21

**Awe-Inspiration**

In previous weeks, we have established that God duplicated His image into humanity. With this image, humanity was to grow infinitely as the image of God itself was infinite. This was to be the basis for human education. The actual learning and development, whether it was intellectual, ideological, ideational, physical, spiritual, emotional, or for character growth, it was for infinite growth. That which was to continue for eternity would start here on earth, starting from a relationship with Christ.

However, sin tarnished the image of God in us. Eternal growth and education stopped, and death was introduced. Sin morphed the potential for eternal spiritual growth into dimmed spiritual eyesight. It weakened our physical capabilities and contracted our mental capacities. Sin damaged every aspect of our human education. More drastically, sin caused a separation between our teacher God and us, demonstrated in the expulsion of our first parents from Eden.

The gift of redemption was given as hope for humanity. Through the gift of Jesus Christ, salvation for anyone who believes in Him is available (John 3:16). Redemption was also part of God’s system of education. Deception prevented Adam and Eve from trusting God—the foundational principle of true education. Satan’s deception would have continued a downward spiral, leading us to think that we could do something to cover up our own shame, nakedness, and sin or that we could do something to fix our catastrophic sin problem. But the gift of Christ also served as the antidote to cure the mind to base reality, not on a worldview that had the tendency to deceive us but on the eternal Word of God. The Bible restarts this education process in human beings by insisting that they “not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God” (Rom. 12:2).

Despite humanity’s fall and the complications of sin, one of the most awe-inspiring aspects of God is His ability to remain the same. His character and His wisdom are unaffected. Even after the fall of Adam and Eve, God does not change His plan or expectations for the human race; He does not alter His requirements (in other words, the law) for the human family. Paradoxically, what is just as awe-inspiring is how God redeems fallen humanity and how much God does change to save fallen humanity. To understand these things means entering into the realm of the wisdom of God—a level that is higher than the highest human thought, and one that He asks us to reach by His power.

#### inScribe

Write out Job 28:12–21 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``