---
title:  Reincarnation Versus New Birth
date:   26/01/2026
---

### inGest

In Hinduism, reincarnation is the cycle of birth, death, and rebirth. Hindus believe the soul (atman) is eternal and moves through this cycle, with each new life determined by karma—the results of past actions. While good karma improves one’s standing in the next life, bad karma can lead to a less favorable rebirth. The ultimate goal is to attain moksha, liberation from the cycle, where the soul merges with Brahman, the divine essence or ultimate reality.

Unlike Hinduism, Jesus taught that our works or good karma cannot break the power of death; only the work of the Holy Spirit breaks its power.  Jesus offers a new birth that breaks the bondage of sin and spiritual death. In John 3, Nicodemus, a respected religious teacher, engaged in a conversation with Jesus, who introduced the concept of the “new birth” and emphasized the deep spiritual transformation required to enter the kingdom of God. In John 3:3, Jesus said, “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.” This new birth is essential because it brings new life. As 2 Corinthians 5:17 states, “Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new.” This new life is marked by new desires, new experiences, new victories, and a new future.

Jesus told Nicodemus, “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit” (John 3:5, 6). The new birth is a work of God in which the Holy Spirit regenerates the heart and makes us responsive to His will.

Jesus explained that human effort and religious rituals cannot bring about rebirth. Only the power of the Holy Spirit can effect this transformation. But how does one experience this new birth? The new birth process is a continual, daily submission to the Holy Spirit in which we allow Him to reshape our inner lives—to alter the core beliefs and motivations that guide our actions. God’s process results in His love becoming deeply rooted in our hearts, providing us with a renewed identity, fresh desires, and the ability to fulfill His purpose in our lives. As Romans 8:11 says, “If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who dwells in you.” This is not a reincarnation into another life form, but a new life that we can experience now.

### Questions to explore

`In what areas of your life do you sense the need for a deeper spiritual transformation? How does the Holy Spirit play a role in that process?`

`How can you give the Holy Spirit more room to work in your life?`