---
title:  Hope for Non-Christians
date:   30/01/2026
---

### inSight

“Among the heathen [non-Christians] are those who worship God ignorantly, those to whom the light is never brought by human instrumentality, yet they will not perish. Though ignorant of the written law of God, they have heard His voice speaking to them in nature, and have done the things that the law required. Their works are evidence that the Holy Spirit has touched their hearts, and they are recognized as the children of God.”–Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 638.

“Caste is hateful to God. He ignores everything of this character. In His sight the souls of all men are of equal value. He ‘hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; that they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after Him, and find Him, though He be not far from every one of us.’ Without distinction of age, or rank, or nationality, or religious privilege, all are invited to come unto Him and live. ‘Whosoever believeth on Him shall not be ashamed. For there is no difference.’ ‘There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free.’ ‘The rich and poor meet together: the Lord is the Maker of them all.’ ”–White, _The Desire of Ages_, 403.

“In heathen Africa, in the Catholic lands of Europe and of South America, in China, in India, in the islands of the sea, and in all the dark corners of the earth, God has in reserve a firmament of chosen ones that will yet shine forth amidst the darkness, revealing clearly to an apostate world the transforming power of obedience to His law. Even now they are appearing in every nation, among every tongue and people; and in the hour of deepest apostasy, when Satan's supreme effort is made to cause ‘all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond,’ to receive, under penalty of death, the sign of allegiance to a false rest day, these faithful ones, ‘blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke,’ will ‘shine as lights in the world.’ … The darker the night, the more brilliantly will they shine.”–Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_ (1917), 188, 189.

“The most effective way to teach the heathen who know not God is through His works. In this way, far more readily than by any other method, they can be made to realize the difference between their idols, the works of their own hands, and the true God, the Maker of heaven and earth.”–Ellen G. White, _Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students_ (1913), 186.