---
title:  inQuire
date:   31/01/2026
---

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to study this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Receiving salvation:**

1. What does the new birth experience look like? How could a religious leader like Nicodemus lack understanding of something so essential? _John 3:1–6_
2. How does the Bible’s teachings on the new birth differ from the concept of reincarnation? _Review John 3:1–6 and this week’s inGest section._
3. How does God’s forgiveness contrast with karma? _See Eph. 2:8, 9 and 1 John 1:9._
4. What is God’s plan for humanity? _John 3:16, 17_

`Personal reflection: How does a person experience the new birth?`

**The gospel and reincarnation:**

1. Some believe their destiny is determined by the things they did in previous lives, which they can’t remember. In contrast, what does the Bible teach about the judgment? _Heb. 9:27; Rom. 14:12_
2. Those who believe that destiny is shaped by previous, forgotten lives can never be certain of salvation. In contrast, what assurance of salvation can we have in Christ? _John 5:24_
3. Rather than getting several new identities and sets of memories over multiple lives, what does the Bible teach about a person’s continued identity after their resurrection? _Job 19:25–27; Matt. 8:11_
4. How does the biblical view of human equality challenge social hierarchies like the caste system? _Gal. 3:28; Rev. 14:6_

`Personal reflection: How can a deeper understanding of the biblical view of salvation equip you to share your faith more effectively?`

### Key takeaways to remember

- Salvation is a gift from God. It is not based on our own works.
- God’s judgment is fair and direct. We have only one life to give an account for.
- The Bible challenges social hierarchies by teaching that all humans are equal.