---
title:  Grounded in Messiah
date:  21/12/2019
---

#### inGest

In Daniel chapter 8, Daniel is given the vision of the ram, he-goat, horn, and the 2,300-day prophecy. The angel Gabriel proceeds to explain the vision and does not explain fully the 2,300-day prophecy in reference to the sanctuary. Daniel is awaiting the end of the seventy-year captivity of the Jews and is worried that the 2,300-day prophecy means the seventy-year captivity will be extended to 2,300 years. Daniel chapter 8 ends with Daniel fainting and sick because he did not understand the vision.

Chapter 9 begins with Daniel’s reference to the seventy-year captivity and his prayer for the restoration of his people to Jerusalem, as God had promised through Jeremiah. Daniel is worried that the timetable for the restoration of his people, the city of Jerusalem, and the temple’s rebuilding will be extended. Gabriel comes and says that he has come to help Daniel to “understand the vision” (Dan. 9:23). The vision of the 2,300 days is not understood, and the angel Gabriel proceeds to give the seventy-week prophecy. In other words, the key to understanding the 2,300-day prophecy is to link it with the seventy-week prophecy.

Below is a diagram of 2,300-day and seventy-week prophecies, applying the day/year principle:

The prophetic date of 1844 and the Adventist belief in the investigative judgment are grounded in the seventy-week prophecy. The seventy-week prophecy proves the authenticity of Jesus as the Messiah. He was baptized exactly on time. He died exactly in the year that the Bible predicted. It’s hard to deny the veracity of seventy weeks and its fulfillment in Jesus Christ. When the seventy weeks are linked with the 2,300 days, the implications are clear. If 1844 is wrong, then the seventy weeks are also wrong, and Jesus is not the Messiah. In other words, if you are a Christian, then prophetically speaking, you must believe in the investigative judgment that began in 1844. If you believe in Jesus as the Messiah, then being a Seventh-day Adventist makes perfect sense.

``