---
title:  Jesus and Adventism
date:  24/12/2019
---

#### inVite

Adventist identity is anchored in Jesus as Messiah. The whole notion of 1844 seems bizarre to other Christian communities. Where in the world did we come up with that date? Yet, when we see clearly that 1844 comes from being faithful to the text and anchoring it in the Messianic prophecy of Jesus Christ, we come to the realization that 1844 is not weird but that it is Christ-centered! According to the book of Daniel, the Adventist belief in 1844 is anchored in the belief that Jesus is the Messiah; and the veracity of the seventy-week prophecy gives veracity to the date of 1844.

The judgment message is anchored in Jesus as Messiah and the gospel. The whole notion of the judgment seems antithetical to the gospel and the good news of salvation bought at Calvary. However, Daniel 8 and 9 do not disassociate the two, but rather the chapters link them together. The message of judgment and the message of the cross are joined together prophetically; they should not be dissociated from each other theologically.

The linking of the seventy-week prophecy and the 2,300-day prophecy links Jesus as the Lamb and Jesus as High Priest. These two time prophecies reveal Jesus in the courtyard of the sanctuary and, by implication, Jesus as our High Priest in the Holy Place during the span from 31 AD to 1844 AD; and Jesus as our High Priest in the Most Holy Place from 1844 to the present day. The linking of the seventy-week and 2,300-day prophecies further authenticates the sanctuary as the hermeneutical key to understanding the plan of salvation.

``