---
title:  Holy Ground
date:  12/07/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 3, 4

**Holy Ground**

How did you meet God? Some converts to the faith can describe a moment when their lives changed dramatically because of a certain encounter with God—a time when God got their attention. People who were born into a Christian home and have always gone to church may think of themselves as always having known God. In this chapter, we see Moses having an unexpected encounter with God that changed everything.

Moses was born into the people of God, a member of the tribe of Levi. His mother had taught him about God from before the time he could understand. Then, at a young age, he had been taken to the palace and had only his early memories to guide him. After his attempt to defend the Israelites from Egyptian oppression and fleeing to the far side of the desert, we find Moses tending sheep for his father-in-law. All his dreams of doing something great for God’s people had faded into the distant past. He no longer studied war, geopolitics, or the Egyptian gods. He only had to worry about finding food and water for the sheep. Only after forty years of watching sheep did God finally make an appearance, ready to introduce Himself personally.

In the story, God came to Moses as “the Angel of the Lord” (Exod. 3:2). The Angel of the Lord had appeared several times in the book of Genesis, both to Hagar (Gen. 16:7–11) and Abraham (Gen. 22:11–15). The Angel of the Lord is also the one to later accompany the Israelites through the wilderness (Exod. 14:19). The identity of this Angel of the Lord is initially unclear. Is it God Himself or a messenger from God? The narrative clarifies this when, in Exodus 3:4, God is the One who speaks to Moses. Because of the holiness of the One speaking to Moses, Moses must remove his footwear (v. 5). Everything changed in that one brief moment, when God informed Moses that he would be the one to lead Israel out of slavery. From the quiet life of a shepherd, Moses was about to be catapulted into leadership of a new nation.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 3:1–6 from the translation of your choice or write the passage in your own words. You may also outline or mind-map all of Exodus 3 and 4.

` `