---
title:  Coming to Deliver
date:  13/07/2025
---

#### inGest

God called to Moses from the burning bush, telling him to not come any closer (Exod. 3:5). Knowing that Moses’ mind must have been reeling with confusion, God quickly moved to identify Himself: “I am the God of your father—the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob” (v. 6). He followed with the reason for His appearing: “I have come down to deliver” (v. 8). This deliverance had been centuries in the making (Gen. 15:13, 14).

God described the Hebrews as “My people” (Exod. 3:7, 10). If you’re reading casually, you might simply skip over these words. However, they set the stage for the rest of the book. The Israelites are God’s people. You might say, “Of course, they are. They’re Abraham’s descendants.” However, if they were God’s people, why were they in such trouble? Why were they in slavery? Why were their babies being killed? Why had this been going on for decades, or perhaps centuries? We can’t answer all these questions; when God gets involved in human affairs, He sometimes ends up looking like He doesn’t care. But He does care, even when He doesn’t seem to from our limited human perspective. God still cares, even when He doesn’t work as quickly as we think He ought to or would like Him to.

At the outset, God made it clear that He would be the One working to deliver Israel (v. 8). Where Moses had failed when striking the Egyptian, God would succeed in striking Egypt (v. 20). However, when Moses heard he had to go speak to Pharaoh about the impending Exodus, he protested (v. 11). This is the first of five attempts Moses made to turn down God’s command.

In his first attempt at convincing God that he was not the best person for the job, Moses appeared worried that he would not be important enough an individual to convince Pharaoh to comply with God’s command. Because of Moses’ concern, God sought to reassure him by offering him a sign. This first sign would not be immediate. God promised that when Moses brought the Israelites out of Egypt, they would worship God at the very mountain where He and Moses were currently speaking. This sign would require Moses to wait quite a while. In other words, it wasn’t so much a sign as a promise. Unsurprisingly, Moses wasn’t convinced. He sought clarification on God’s identity, saying the Israelites would want to know too (Exod. 3:13). Here, we find one of the most significant verses in the Bible. God revealed His name: “I AM WHO I AM” (v. 14).

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 3 and 4. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`If God appeared to you as He did to Moses, what do you think your first question would be? Why?`

`What do you think God wanted to say about Himself with the statement, “I AM has sent me to you” (Exod. 3:14)?`