---
title:  Arguing with God
date:  14/07/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Moses tried to argue with God, without much success. Moses was skeptical: “Suppose they will not believe me or listen to my voice” (Exod. 4:1). The concern seems valid. After all, why would the Israelite leaders believe such a claim, especially from someone who had abandoned them?

God’s answer was to equip Moses with miracles to convince the Israelite leaders that God had indeed remembered them. First, Moses threw his shepherd’s staff to the ground and watched it become a snake. Then, he placed his hand inside his robe, and when he pulled it out, it was covered with leprosy. These events were impressive, but would not necessarily be convincing to the Egyptians. God acknowledged to Moses that the people still might not listen to him: “And it shall be, if they do not believe even these two signs, or listen to your voice, that you shall take water from the river and pour it on the dry land. The water which you take from the river will become blood on the dry land” (v. 9). Moses’ worries were not completely invalid. Even God acknowledged that two miracles might not convince them.

Moses was running out of options to escape this mission. He returned the focus to himself. “God,” he seemed to say, “You have the wrong guy. You want a leader, and everyone knows leaders need to be gifted speakers.” Moses was sure this excuse would work. God’s response shows that He was aware of Moses’ impediment and had chosen him anyway: “Who has made man’s mouth? Or who makes the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Have not I, the Lord?” (v. 11). God takes on a lot of responsibility with this one. He claims to have made all people, no matter their physical challenges and limitations. God gives equal value and dignity to all people, including those born with imperfect bodies. The story of Moses reminds us that God physical disabilities and impairments do not prevent God from using people in His work.

Finally, in a last-ditch effort to stave off involvement, Moses simply begged God to find someone else—anyone else: “O my Lord, please send by the hand of whomever else You may send” (v. 13). He didn’t offer any excuses, just a heart-felt cry to God to not make him do it. Then we discover that God has emotions too. God became angry when He said in essence: “Look! Your brother is already on the way. This is happening. Go. He will speak for you, and you will be as God to him.” Even in His anger, God compromised with Moses, providing a way for Moses to lead without having to bear the burden of public speaking.

At this, Moses gave in. He offered no more excuses. He simply returned home and asked his father-in-law for permission to return to Egypt. Ultimately, God was right. Moses performed the signs as God commanded, and “the people believed; and when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel and that He had looked on their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshiped” (v. 31). Whom did they worship? The God whose name is “I AM,” the self-existent Creator God who is the source of life itself.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`If you were to have an argument with God, what would your complaint be?`