---
title:  Who Is He?
date:  16/07/2025
---

#### inVite

In reading the stories of signs and miracles that God worked through Moses, we might wonder how valuable these supernatural events ultimately were. Jesus performed many miracles to encourage faith in His followers, but it often seems that the people, while happy to be healed, moved on quickly with their lives. Are miracles the best way to lead people to faith? Sure, someone might be forced to conclude that they were in the presence of the Supernatural, but would that accomplish God’s ultimate mission? The answer seems to be no. Even so, Jesus performed miracles almost constantly. Sometimes, it seems Jesus just couldn’t help Himself, like when He brought the widow of Nain’s son back to life (Luke 7:11–17). Jesus didn’t wait to be asked. He just acted, not even waiting to see if anyone there had the requisite faith. But Jesus didn’t display His supernatural abilities just to gain followers. Jesus was showing who He is and, more importantly, who His Father is.

With that perspective, Jesus’ “I AM” statement in John 8:58 is perhaps the most direct statement He made regarding His identity. Quoting from Exodus 3:14, Jesus identified Himself as the God of the Old Testament. All of Jesus’ teachings hinged on this identity. Everything Jesus would accomplish during the final days of His ministry would be grounded in who He is.

Everyone seemed to understand that the question of Christ’s identity was imperative. The scribes questioned Jesus’ identity and His claim to forgive sins (9:4). John the Baptist wanted to be assured of who Jesus is (Matt. 11:2, 3). The Jews demanded a sign from Jesus to prove His identity (12:38). In a sense, all of the miracles of Jesus were to validate His claims and His identity. For example Jesus healed the paralytic, “that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins” (v. 6).

When Jesus asked the disciples who people said He was, the list was long: “Some say John the Baptist, some Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets” (16:14). Then Jesus pressed them to declare who they believed Him to be. Peter confessed, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God” (16:16). The future of the church would be built upon this understanding that Jesus was sent from heaven. Jesus was born into our world to be “God with us” (1:23). With that knowledge, we finally understand our true value to God. God gave Himself to be with us and save us.

#### Journal

`Compare Exodus 3 with John 8:58 to understand what it says about Jesus.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`How can you help people who have difficulty understanding that Jesus is divine?`

`Prayer Response:`