---
title:  The Promise
date:  14/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 22:1–12; Genesis 22:8, 14, 19; Genesis 23; Genesis 24; Genesis 24:67–25:1–8.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Abraham lived to be a very old man. The Lord blessed him and everything he did” (Genesis 24:1, ERV).

GOD KEEPS HIS PROMISE: Sarah has a son. Abraham is an old man at the time (Genesis 21:2). Abraham names the baby Isaac (read Genesis 21:1–5). But the story of Abraham is not over. Abraham takes Isaac, when he is grown, to the Mountain of Moriah. There, Abraham must give Isaac to God as a burnt offering. God replaces Isaac with a male sheep at the last instant (Genesis 22:13). The sheep is a word picture that shows us the saving plan of God. God wants to bless the humans because of Isaac (Genesis 22:17, 18). That blessing, of course, is Jesus (Acts 13:23). This story shows us much Bible truth about the saving plan of God.

Sarah dies sometime after Isaac is offered to God (Genesis 23). Isaac has no wife at this time. So, the future of Abraham is not sure.

Abraham makes sure that the right future will happen. Abraham commands his servant Eliezer to arrange a marriage for Isaac. Eliezer arranges a marriage for Isaac with Rebekah (Genesis 24). Rebekah will give Isaac two sons (Genesis 25:21–23). Abraham also gets married again. His new wife, Keturah, gives Abraham many children (Genesis 25:1–6). This week, we will read about Abraham, from Moriah to the end of his life Genesis 25:7–11).