---
title:  On The Mountain Of Moriah 
date:  15/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What is the meaning of the test that God gives to Abraham? What spiritual lessons can we learn from this surprising story? For the answers, read Genesis 22:1–12 and Hebrews 11:17.`

God commands Abraham to give him Isaac as a burnt offering. This command goes against an important Bible rule, right? God forbids His people to kill other humans and offer them as religious gifts to Him. So, why does God now test Abraham in this powerful and difficult way?

First, we must understand what a Bible test is. Then, we will better understand the answer to this difficult question. In the Bible, a test includes two parts or ideas. The first part of a Bible test is to show you what is in your heart (Deuteronomy 8:2; compare with Genesis 22:12). The second part of a Bible test shows the mercy of God to the person who takes the test (Exodus 20:18–20).

So, in this test, Abraham takes a risk. If Abraham gives up Isaac, Abraham will lose his “future” (that is, his future children that will be born to him because of Isaac). But Abraham trusts God, even if he does not understand the test. Faith means that we trust in what we do not see or completely understand, right?

Bible faith is not about what we give to God. For sure, what we give to God is important (Romans 12:1). But Bible faith is really about our trust in God and accepting His mercy that we did nothing to earn.

We see this Bible truth in the story on the Mountain of Moriah. Look at all the good things that Abraham did in his life before this time. Abraham did many good works. He was kind and helpful to other people. Now he takes a trip to the Mountain of Moriah with his son. For sure, this trip causes Abraham to suffer as he thinks about what will happen to Isaac there. But none of these things are enough to save Abraham. Why? Because the Lord Himself gives a male sheep for the offering. This male sheep shows us our only hope for being saved: Jesus.

This story also shows us the mercy of God for us. Our good behavior does not save us. Only the obedience of Jesus saves us (Ephesians 3:8; compare with Romans 11:33).

`What does this story about Abraham teach you about faith? How should we show faith?`