---
title:  God Will Give Us What We Need 
date:  16/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How does God keep His promise that He will give Abraham and Isaac what they need? What does God give them? For the answers, read Genesis 22:8, 14, 18.`

Isaac asks his father where they will get the lamb needed for the offering. Abraham gives his son an interesting answer: “ ‘God himself will provide [bring] the lamb for the burnt offering, my son’ ” (Genesis 22:8, NIrV). This verse also may be written as: “God will offer Himself as the Lamb.”

The answer of Abraham shows us what the saving plan of God is all about. The Lord Himself will suffer and pay the penalty for our sins!

`The story about Abraham and Isaac on the Mountain of Moriah shows us what will happen on the cross. Read John 1:1–3 and Romans 5:6–8. How do these verses help us understand what happened at the Cross?`

There, on the Mountain of Moriah, Abraham turns and sees behind him the male sheep “whose horns were caught in a bush” of thorns (Genesis 22:13). This male sheep shows us Jesus who wore a crown made from thorns. Abraham sees Jesus in the word picture of this sheep, too. That is why “Abraham named that place ‘the Lord sees.’ That is the reason people today say, ‘On this mountain the Lord is seen’ ” (Genesis 22:14, CEB). Jesus Himself gives us proof that Abraham saw Him in the gift of the lamb that day on the mountain. Jesus says, “ ‘Your father Abraham was filled with joy at the thought of seeing my day. He saw it and was glad’ ” (John 8:56, NIrV).

“God commands Abraham to kill His son. Why does God give Abraham this difficult test? Because God wants to give Abraham a test of faith. God also wants to show Abraham His saving plan. Abraham suffers very much during this test. God allows Abraham to suffer so that Abraham will understand from his own experience how much God will give to us when He offers His Son to save us humans.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 154, adapted.

`How does this story about Abraham help us better understand what happened at the cross?`