---
title:  Sarah Dies 
date:  17/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Genesis 22:23, we read that Rebekah is born. Rebekah is the future wife of Isaac (Genesis 24). In Genesis 23, we read that Sarah dies and is buried. Sometime after her death, Abraham marries Keturah (Genesis 25:1—4).

`What important part does the death of Sarah and the place where she is buried have in the promise that God makes to Abraham? For the answer, read Genesis 23.`

Sarah dies sometime after Isaac comes back from the Mountain of Moriah. The Bible tells us that Sarah “lived to be 127 years old” (Genesis 23:1). Sarah is the only woman in the Old Testament whose age is written down in the Bible. This information shows us that Sarah is a very important person in the story about Abraham. She joined him on his travels. She was by his side, for better or for worse. She was part of his life when he failed to show faith from time to time (Genesis 12:11–13).

Most of Genesis 23 talks about the grave that Abraham bought for Sarah. This story talks more about this place where she is buried than about her death. The Bible tells us that Sarah died in the land of Canaan (Genesis 23:2). Sarah is the first person from the family of Abraham who dies in the Promised Land and is buried there. So, the death of Sarah is connected with the Promised Land.

Abraham argues with the sons of Heth about the land that Abraham wants to buy as a grave for Sarah. This story shows us that Abraham is interested in far more than a place to bury his wife. Abraham is interested in making his home in the Promised Land forever.

`Read Genesis 23:6. What does this Bible verse tell us about how much people respected Abraham? Why is the respect and honor that other people showed Abraham so important to the plan that God had for Abraham and his life?`