---
title:  A Wife For Isaac 
date:  18/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw, Genesis 23 tells us that Sarah dies. Genesis 24 tells us the story about how Isaac marries Rebekkah. The death of Sarah is connected to the marriage of Isaac and Rebekkah, as we shall see.

`Why is Abraham worried about a wife for Isaac? Why does Abraham not want Isaac to marry a Canaanite woman? For the answers, read Genesis 24.`

Abraham trusts the promise of God. So, Abraham believes his future children will live in the Promised Land. That is why Abraham does not want Isaac to make his future home outside the Promised Land (Genesis 24:7). Also, Abraham does not want Isaac to marry someone who will turn his heart away from God. So, Abraham sends his servant to find a wife for Isaac from among the family group of Abraham. Isaac brings his bride into the tent of his mother Sarah. Isaac loves Rebekah “very much. So he was comforted after his mother’s death” (Genesis 24:67). We see from this story that Isaac is filled with pain and sorrow after his mother died.

The story about the marriage of Isaac and Rebekah is filled with prayers and promises. From this beautiful story, we can learn many lessons about the loving favor of God and about human freedom. Abraham asks his servant to swear an oath in the name of God: “ ‘The Lord is the God of heaven and the God of earth. I want you to make a promise to me in his name’ ” (Genesis 24:3, NIrV). Do you see that Abraham believes that God is the One who made the skies and the earth (Genesis 1:1; Genesis 14:19)?

Next, Abraham talks about “ ‘the LORD, the God of heaven’ ” and “ ‘His angel’ ” (Genesis 24:7, ERV). These two names show us the Angel of the Lord who came from heaven to the Mountain of Moriah. He stopped Isaac from being killed (Genesis 22:11). This Angel is the same God who controls all life. He will lead the servant of Abraham to choose a bride for Isaac.

Abraham accepts that the woman may not choose to marry Isaac. Yes, God is all powerful. But He does not force anyone to obey Him. Rebekah can say yes or no. God will respect her decision. So, we see in this story an example of the gift of free choice that God gives us.