---
title:  A Wife For Abraham 
date:  19/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read in Genesis 24:67–25:1–8 about the final happenings in the life of Abraham. What do these stories show us?`

After Sarah dies, Abraham marries again. His wife comforts him after the death of Sarah in the same way that Rebekah comforts Isaac (Genesis 24:67).

The name of the new wife of Abraham is Keturah. Who is Keturah? We are not really sure. The Bible talks about the sons of Keturah and Abraham in the same list as the sons of Hagar. So, it is possible that Hagar and Keturah may be the same person. Abraham sends the sons of Keturah away when they are grown, too, just as he sent Ishmael away. Abraham wants everyone to see that Isaac is the one who will get everything he owns when he dies.

So, “Abraham left everything he owned to Isaac. But while he was still living, he gave gifts to the sons of his concubines [wives who were less important than Sarah]. Then he sent them [the sons] away from his son Isaac. He sent them to the land of the east” (Genesis 25:6, NIrV). The word “concubines” shows us that Keturah was the same type of wife as Hagar, and not like Sarah.

In Genesis 25:1–4, 12–18, we see a list of the children that Abraham has with Keturah. We also see a list of the children of Ishmael. What is the reason for this list? No doubt this list is proof that God will keep his promise to Abraham: Abraham will be the father of many people groups.

The list of the sons of Ishmael is made of 12 family groups (compare with Genesis 17:20). Jacob also had 12 sons, who were the fathers of 12 family groups (Genesis 35:22–26). As we know, God will not make His agreement with Ishmael and his children. God will make his agreement only with the future children of Isaac (Genesis 17:21).

So, God keeps His promise to Abraham. God blesses him with many sons. God told Abraham many years before: “ ‘you will live many years, die in peace and be buried’ ” (Genesis 15:15, NLV; compare Ecclesiastes 6:3).

In the end, the Lord keeps His promises to His loyal servant Abraham. The Lord shows Abraham His loving-favor and mercy. In the Old Testament, Abraham is a wonderful example, maybe even the best example, of how God saves us. God saves us by His mercy when we believe in Him.