---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Abraham was a special messenger from God. God shared His plans with Abraham (Genesis 18:17). God showed Abraham His plan to save humans by the death of His Son.

“Isaac is a word picture for Jesus, the Son of God. God will give Jesus as an offering for the sins of everyone on earth. God wants Abraham to understand the Good News about Jesus and how His saving plan works. So, God gives Abraham a test. God commands Abraham to kill his precious son, Isaac. Abraham suffers deeply during this test. God allows Abraham to suffer in this way for a reason. The pain and suffering from this experience will help Abraham understand the plan of God to save humans. Abraham learns how much God must give when He gives us His son to save us from sin. Nothing else that Abraham experiences comes close to matching the suffering he feels when he obeys the command from God to kill Isaac.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, page 369, adapted.

“Abraham becomes an old man. He expects to die soon. But he needs to do one more thing before he dies. Then he will be sure that God can keep His promises to His future children. Abraham must find Isaac a wife. God chooses Isaac as the one to keep the knowledge of His law safe. God also chooses Isaac to be the father of the chosen people. The people of Canaan worship false gods. So, God does not allow His people to marry the Canaanites. God knows what will happen if His people marry the Canaanites. The Canaanites will lead His people to turn away from Him completely. . . . . To Abraham, the choice of a wife for Isaac is very important business. Abraham wants his son to marry a woman who will not lead him from God. . . . Isaac trusts his father to choose the best wife for him. Isaac believes that God Himself will lead out in choosing a wife for him.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 171, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Abraham was willing to kill Isaac to please God. How much faith and strength do you think he needed to do that? What surprises you and troubles you about this story, too?`

`What about your freedom to choose? Why must we have free choice as Christians? What examples do we have in the Bible about free choice? Sometimes people made the wrong choices. How do these stories show us that God worked out His saving plan for their lives anyway?`