---
title:  God Promises Us Power? Super Ones?
date:  07/07/2018
---

**Introduction**: Joel 2:28; Rom. 2:15; Eph. 6:12

“You can surmise that following the ins and outs of the latest superhero films is a surefire way to post stuff that readers will be interested in.”* Such a statement reflects how exciting the last 10 years have been for nerds everywhere, as Hollywood invests billions of dollars into content promoting superheroes combating existing and growing evils in the universe. Though it was the interest of many before, why the new trend?

Like a bank manager looking into a vault, God knows what is inside and what we are made of. Since Scripture says it is all “written” on our hearts, we inherently know there is something greater—a call that is of divine proportions and potency, waiting for us to embrace and accept that which is from God.

Paul reminds us in Ephesians 6:12 that humanity wrestles “not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.”

As evil takes innocence in its grasp, we know it is to abuse, kill, and destroy those without knowledge.

As evil shows its face all about us, God reaches across space and time to aid His creatures in their need of Him. “ And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions” (Joel 2:28).

For generations, God placed single individuals at a time to hold His light in this dark world; but not until the day Christ’s followers were visited, empowered with God’s might and His Spirit in that upper room, were they able to combat the existing and growing evils in these last days.

So why the trend?

Why the Superman or Ironman fascinations?

For we are not looking to pantheonic beings for inspiration, but in truth, they stand as reminders of our purpose and are fictitious reflections of ourselves looking into a mirror remembering whose we truly are: God’s.

_Juan-Jose D. Garza, Washington, District of Columbia, USA_