---
title:  Pentecost and the Promise
date:  08/07/2018
---

**Evidence**: Eph. 1:13, 14

Pentecost, also known as the “Feast of Weeks” (Lev. 23:15–17), was one of six annual feasts celebrated by the Jewish people (Leviticus 23). The word Pentecost is derived from a Greek adjective meaning “fiftieth,” which referenced the fact that Pentecost was held 50 days after the ceremony of the wave sheaf (verses 15, 16).

The annual feasts, including Pentecost, were instituted for two important reasons: (1) to help the Israelites remember God’s miraculous dealings in the past and (2) to direct their minds to God’s precious promises for the future. For example, the Passover feast (verse 5) not only commemorated the Israelites’ deliverance from Egyptian bondage but also pointed to the promise of salvation through Jesus. The Passover lamb was to be without blemish (Exod. 12:5) and not a bone was to be broken (verse 46). The slain Passover lamb very clearly pointed forward to Jesus, “the Lamb of God” slain to take away “the sin of the world” (John 1:29).

Similarly, Pentecost served a double purpose. It reminded the people of God’s bountiful blessings during the harvest season and also pointed forward to that momentous day recorded in Acts 2 when the first great gathering of souls was added to the body of Christ. The typical Day of Pentecost was a joyous celebration filled with thanksgiving to God for the fruit of the harvest season. During this feast, the Israelites were instructed to bring the first cut of grain, or “first fruits,” from the harvest as well as a liberal freewill offering in proportion to how much God had blessed them (Lev. 23:16; Deut. 16:10).

After the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, Peter preached to the assembled crowd, and three thousand souls were baptized (verse 41). The seed Jesus had sown during His three and a half years of ministry combined with an unprecedented outpouring of power yielded a rich return. As we study Acts 2, we can look forward with great hope and anticipation to the bountiful harvest that will result during latter rain times. Pentecost reminds us that God keeps His promises. The Holy Spirit is both the fulfillment of the promise and our guarantee that God will finish the work that He began (Eph. 1:13, 14).

**React**

`1. How does Pentecost remind us that God keeps His promises?`

`2. How does Pentecost give us greater hope as we look forward to the latter rain?`

_Cheryl Cathlin, Newport News, Virginia, USA_