---
title:  The Holy Spirit at Work
date:  09/07/2018
---

**Logos**: Gen. 1:2; Isa. 28:25–27; Matt. 28:18–20; Acts 1:4–8; 8:1–8

**The Holy Spirit in Full Effect (Acts 1:4–8)**

As we study the churches in the book of Acts, we find the excitement of the disciples as they are deployed to turn the world upside down. Many a reader refers to the book of Acts as the movement of the first church, but if we pay careful attention to the text, we see that it was the Holy Spirit at work. The introduction to this book is clear about who was leading the church (Acts 1:4–8). After the Holy Spirit comes, then comes the power.

Power is given to those who witness. The Holy Spirit is promised to everyone for the express purpose of spreading the gospel and seeking to save the lost. As you continue to read this book, the acts of the Holy Spirit will be manifested in every church that gathers together and every individual who believes. There will be growth in the gospel, first starting in Jerusalem and in all Judaea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth.

**The Role of the Holy Spirit (Gen. 1:2; Acts 28:25–27)**

We receive our first glimpse of the Holy Spirit at work in Creation (Gen. 1:2). The Holy Spirit was present and still is present in the hearts and minds of those whose spiritual walk is without form and void. The fact that light was called into play says that the Spirit was moving in the process of Creation, and it is the same with the church in Acts.

The Holy Spirit was moving in those days as the church received power to spread the word of the risen Savior. The Bible calls the Holy Spirit Counselor and Comforter. As Comforter, He took Jesus’ place, and as Counselor, He directs and guides each individual. Paul admonished the church not to be like their ancestors who didn’t heed the voice of the Holy Spirit. He recounts the words of Isaiah saying that God wouldn’t heal the Israelites because they wouldn’t listen to the Spirit (Acts 28:25–27).

**The Growth of the Early Church (Acts 8:1–8)**

There are many examples of the church moving and growing (Acts 2:47; 5:14; 6:1, 7; 9:31; 14:1; 16:5). Wherever they were scattered, they preached the message about Jesus. Going down to a Samaritan city, Philip proclaimed the message of the Messiah. When the people heard what he had to say and saw the miracles, the clear signs of God’s action, they hung on his every word. Many who could neither stand nor walk were healed that day. Individuals were being healed, and as the church was being persecuted, it grew and grew. The people listened to Philip’s gospel message, and all the apostles who preached the gospel saw the fruit of it. As the Ethiopian eunuch sat in his chariot reading the Scriptures, Philip was brought to him by the Holy Spirit. Philip explains the Scripture, revealing Jesus Christ. As soon as the eunuch saw water, he couldn’t resist being baptized into Christ. Growth of the church was the common theme by way of the workings of the Holy Spirit.

**Preaching the Kingdom of God (Matt. 28:18–20; Acts 1:8)**

The book of Acts is the proclamation lived out and manifested—go into the world, preach the everlasting gospel, make disciples of all individuals. As Christians, we have a mandate to spread the gospel not just through preaching but simply by being led by the Holy Spirit. Acts 1:8 declares that when we are in partnership with God, the Holy Spirit will guide us in the spreading of His Word.

_Paul Graham, Bowie, Maryland, USA_