---
title:  The Weight of Light
date:  10/07/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 2:1–47

Ellen G. White says that the “whole book of Acts is our lesson book.”1 It shares the colorful miracles, signs, and wonders that accompanied the preaching and teaching of the apostles. It is an inspirational history book written “under the direction of the Holy Spirit.”2 Inspiration is the light that made the apostles such heavy but practical theologians.

Among the lessons from the book of Acts, one is that the apostles and disciples fulfilled the purpose for which Christ commissioned and appointed them. The key to their success was that it was “not in their own power . . . but in the power of the living God. . . . Irresolution, indecision, weakness of purpose, found no place in their efforts. They were willing to spend and be spent.”3

Like the apostles, “we are to labor as men and women who have a living connection with God. We are to learn how to meet the people where they are.

. . . Every individual soul has a responsibility before God, and is not to be arbitrarily instructed by men as to what he shall do, what he shall say, and where he shall go. We are not to put confidence in the counsel of men and assent to all they shall say unless we have evidence that they are under the influence of the Spirit of God.”4

A second lesson from this inspired history book is the power of solidarity. Again, Ellen White weighs in with contemporary relevance: “The message of present truth is to prepare a people for the coming of the Lord. Let us understand this, and let those placed in responsible positions come into such unity that the work shall go forward solidly.”5

The third and final point is the weight of the light they bore. “The consciousness of the responsibility resting on them purified and enriched their experience, and the grace of heaven was revealed in the conquests they achieved for Christ. With the might of omnipotence God worked through them to make the gospel triumphant.”6

**React**

`How can a contemporary believer activate the same kind of passion and power that the apostles demonstrated?`

_Paul S. Anderson, Bowie, Maryland, USA_