---
title:  Attracting Others to God
date:  11/07/2018
---

**How-to**: John 13:34, 35; 1 John 4:9–11

All of us probably know of a friend or family member who used to be part of the church and no longer is. This, of course, is not limited to just our Seventhday Adventist churches, as it is affecting all religious organizations. One of the biggest complaints I hear from those who have left is the “hypocrisy” seen among fellow church members. While human beings are naturally flawed, I think it’s important to keep in mind that the old song holds true: “They will know we are Christians by our love.”

There is a world of sinners thirsting for the love of Christ, and it is our job as believers to spread that love in our everyday lives. If we do small, kind deeds on a daily basis, others will notice the spiritual glow we have and seek to know more.

Always give God the credit. No matter how talented you are or how hard you’ve worked to get where you are, He is the ultimate reason you are blessed. Promotion at work? Thank your supervisor, of course, but don’t forget your heavenly Supervisor either. Giving God the credit will not only continue to bring you more blessings, but it will be evident to those around you as well.

Be understanding. You just never know unless you’ve experienced it. We are quick to jump to conclusions when we hear a screaming child on the airplane, when a rude driver cuts us off in traffic, or when the cashier at the register doesn’t even bother to say hello. People are constantly dealing with life’s challenges. A genuine smile, a silent nod, or even a simple “How are you?” can make a world of difference to someone who is going through trials.

Change how you pray. Anyone can pray for the Holy Spirit to keep knocking on someone’s heart or to bring peace to the Middle East. It’s not that you should stop praying for those things, and it’s not that God doesn’t hear you. But we don’t always know exactly how God wants to use us, so let’s ask Him to reveal it to us. I do know that He wants as many of His children as possible to come live with Him, and we can play a very special role in that if we allow Him to work through us.

**React**

`1. What excuses have your family and friends given you for leaving the church? What have you told them keeps you attending and believing?`

`2. Now that you have some basic tools, how are you going to show love to others during your daily activities?`

_Erica Harmon, Miami, Florida, USA_