---
title:  The Gift With Power
date:  12/07/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 2:1–6

Do you remember opening gifts as a child—perhaps during Christmastime? Each year, the supremely gratifying thrill of ripping open brightly colored wrapping paper and yanking off metallic bows was totally worth the wait, regardless of how many days had to be crossed off the calendar to reach that momentous morning. I can almost taste the delectable anticipation of the holiday as the decorations appeared almost overnight and the familiar yet joyful chords of Christmas music filled the air.

Did the disciples experience a similar feeling waiting for the Holy Spirit to arrive? As the hours ticked by and the days rolled on in the upper room, they must have been filled with anticipation for this promised Gift for which they had no tracking number.

When the Holy Spirit arrived, the men and women in attendance were filled, and there was no doubt that the long-awaited Comforter was among and within them. They were no longer only followers of Jesus; now they were also partakers of the power with which He healed the sick and raised the dead. No other gift, save the birth of Jesus, has had such an impact on the world.

Not only was the Holy Spirit felt in the upper room, but the sound of His arrival brought multitudes of people from “every nation under heaven” (Acts 2:5) together in bewilderment as they heard their own languages being spoken. What a Gift that brought the sound of wind, tongues of fire, and diverse languages into one place! A Gift purchased with the currency of blood, tears, and sacrifice; a stark contrast to the jingle of change, the folding and unfolding of bills, and the beep of the credit card machine signaling the “most wonderful time of the year.”

I love receiving gifts; I think receiving gifts may actually be one of my love languages. Of all the wonderful gifts I have received, none compare to the gift of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in my life every day. I’m thankful that this small group of men and women waited to receive this precious gift.

**React**

`1. What is the longest amount of time you’ve had to wait to receive something you’d paid for? What about something you received as a gift?`

`2. Have you ever received a gift you didn’t like? How did you react?`

_Quantrilla “Quanny” Ard, Hanover, Maryland, USA_