---
title:  Set on Fire by the Holy Spirit
date:  13/07/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 2

**Conclude**

Before Jesus ascended back to heaven, He promised His disciples that a “ ‘Comforter’ ” would come to encourage them as they began their ultimate global mission. Even in Christ’s physical absence, we learn, according to Ellen G. White, that the Holy Spirit is “the personal presence of Christ to the soul.”* The arrival of the Holy Spirit to the house ignited and motivated the hearts of the believers with an immense passion to drive their ministry forward. The Spirit came to fill the souls that were empty and hopeless. He came to help guide hearts and minds back to the Father. He came to set His people on fire! We, too, can experience the filling of the Holy Spirit, even today.

**Consider**

- Closing your eyes and imagining yourself in the house right before the arrival of the Holy Spirit. Sing the familiar Christian song “Spirit of the Living God” by Daniel Iverson and reflect on the meaning of the lyrics.

- Imagining you are a cup or glass. Empty your mind of every negative thought and feeling. Read Acts 2:17–21. Breathe. Pray for the Holy Spirit to fill you up with positive thoughts and encouragement.

- Writing a short letter to the Holy Spirit. Ask Him where you need guidance in your life.

- Learning how to say “God loves you” in at least three different languages (tongues). Share this with a friend.

- Having an open group discussion on the different perspectives concerning the topic of “speaking in tongues” in the church. Cooking and sharing a delicious meal with a friend. Share with them the story of Pentecost while “filling them up” with your kindness.

**Connect**

John 14.

Ellen G White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 5, “The Gift of the Spirit.”

_* Ellen G. White, “The Perils and Privileges of the Last Days,” Review and Herald, November 29, 1892._