---
title:  The Ultimate Group Project
date:  15/12/2018
---

**Introduction**: 

While some students feel complete sadness and despair when these two words are uttered from their teacher’s mouth, others may be filled with pure euphoria. The two words? Group project. Typically, the members who are ecstatic about this type of project are the ones who leave it up to all of the other members of the group to do the work. Regardless of whether there is an elected leader, each group will have one, and this person may, unfortunately, end up doing all of the work.

Though a common occurrence, this scenario does not have to be the case. Every group has the potential to work like a well-oiled machine. How can a group work like that? You may be thinking, Simple. If everyone does their part, the group will thrive! Despite that being mostly true, I believe the model group needs to be more than that. In Matthew 28:18–20, we are called to “make disciples of all nations” (NIV). To accomplish such an important task, we, the leaders, must make a special effort to connect with and encourage those we are leading. The leaders must be able to aid in uniting the group. If the group is not united, onlookers may not want to join the group (or, in this case, discipleship) and/or the current members will not be compelled to stay in it.

Along with stimulating unity, we must also be willing to serve our brothers and sisters. A true leader should be OK with both leading and serving and treat either position as having the same level of importance. Jesus said, “ ‘Whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be your slave’ ” (Matthew 20:26, 27 NIV). No assignment is too small. Maintaining that mind-set is essential to a group, along with making sure everyone knows they have a specific and important task to take care of.

An unorganized and divided group sticks out like a sore thumb. Thinking of how to complete a successful group project reminds me of how churches are organized. As Christians, we are working on the ultimate group project for the greatest Teacher. We have been given the most wonderful opportunity to work in accordance with our Creator. Because this is such a big deal, staying organized and cultivating unity should be high on our priority list. We must value every position in the church, from the greeter to the pastor. Once again, no assignment is too small.

---

_Michelle D. Amos, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_