---
title:  Sweet Leadership
date:  16/12/2018
---

**Evidence**: John 13:1–17

Sometimes we, as Christians, forget what it means to be a true leader. Many of us, who may hold leadership positions at church, work, school, or home, wonder why people do not follow our instructions. Leadership has nothing to do with merely giving out good instructions or ideas to others but has everything to do with being a servant leader. Jesus gives us a great example of being a servant leader in John 13:1–17.

In these verses we see how Jesus, who wasn’t just the leader of the disciples but God in human form, washed the feet of each and every of His disciples by Himself. At the time, the majority of the population had one kind of shoe—sandals—or no shoes at all. Sandals do not cover the entire foot, just the bottom. The roads were not paved during these times, so walking would leave the feet of travelers caked with dirt. Typically, when one would come to someone else’s residence, the host would have a servant wash the feet of the visitors. This is the role that Jesus played for His disciples, hence making Jesus the ultimate servant leader.

There’s an old story of a woman who had a son who was addicted to sugar. The boy’s mother saw how serious the child’s condition was and journeyed a great distance with the boy to get help. She took her son to see a man by the name of Mahatma Gandhi and asked Gandhi to tell her son to stop eating sugar. Mahatma Gandhi told the mother, “I cannot tell him that. Bring him back in two weeks, and I will tell him.” Upset and befuddled, the mother took her son back home. Two weeks later the mother brought her son back to Gandhi and asked him to do the same thing. This time Gandhi told the son, “Boy, you should stop eating sugar. It is not good for your health.” The child agreed and promised to stop eating sugar. The confused mother asked Gandhi, “Why couldn’t you tell my son to stop two weeks ago?” Gandhi replied, “Mother, two weeks ago I was eating a lot of sugar myself.”

This story shows the pivotal connection between being a servant leader and leading by example. Jesus was able to be a servant leader, leading by His example. When we tell others what to do and how to do it, we are merely giving instructions to others. However, when we show others what to do and how to do it, we inspire and exemplify what those watching must do.

**React**

`1. What actions can you take to become a better servant leader?`

`2. How can you change how people view you as a leader?`

---

_Michael Owusu, Huntsville, Alabama, USA_