---
title:  Unity and Servitude
date:  18/12/2018
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 20:26, 27

All Christians have one common purpose in the church, which is to serve and to be united with our fellow humans. Some people in high positions such as elders, deacons, deaconesses, and pastors think they’re the “head cheese” because of their titles in the church. They put themselves on a pedestal high above everyone else, alienating the people they’re supposed to lead and serve. In preserving unity within the church we must commit these two thoughts to our minds and hearts: remember the Great Commission and take note of Jesus’ example of a great leader.

The Great Commission is a powerful instruction Christ gave to us before He went to heaven (Matt. 28:18–20). All Jesus asked us to do is to spread the gospel all over the globe so that people can hear the good news about Jesus. If we keep that mission in mind, we wouldn’t think so much of ourselves but think of others, sharing the gospel so that they would know that they can inherit eternal life like us. We get so distracted by our roles in church and society that we forget to care about others, forget to put their needs above our needs.

Observing how Christ led is also very important for preserving unity in the church. Jesus did not come down to earth to be served by humans; He came to serve humans. John 13:14, 15 states, “ ‘If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet. For I have given you an example, that you should do as I have done to you’ ” (NKJV). “But he made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men: And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross” (Phil. 2:7, 8). Jesus wants us to see how important it is to be servants so that we can unite others and inspire them to do the same no matter what class we come from or how uncomfortable we may feel. We should not be afraid to serve like Jesus when He washed His disciples’ feet and died for us.

**React**

`1. How can you serve God to your fullest?`

`2. What makes a servant so powerful and inspiring?`

---

_Kent Earl Taylor III, Coral Springs, Florida, USA_