---
title:  Working for God
date:  19/12/2018
---

**How-to**: Matt. 20:26, 27

A Pathfinder, from a young age, is taught to be “a servant of God and a friend to man.” God calls us not only to serve Him but to serve others as well. Everyone wants to become one of God’s workers, to go out and do His will and answer when He calls. I think back to my high school days, and one thing that my religion teacher told me is that “God doesn’t call the qualified. He qualifies the called.” Hearing this got me thinking, How does God qualify us to be His servants and workers?

There are many important qualifications to become a worker for Christ, but for the sake of space, let’s just highlight a few qualifications:

Don’t be ashamed of serving others. We should never be ashamed of serving others because of what people might think of us. Matthew 25:40 says that “ ‘ “whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me” ’ ” (NIV). Whatever you do for anyone, including people in need, you are doing for Jesus Christ.

Encourage others. God has called us to serve Him and witness to others, but He also wants us to encourage others—not just the believers but those who are new to the faith. Titus 1:9 says, “He must hold firmly to the trustworthy message as it has been taught, so that he can encourage others by sound doctrine and refute those who oppose it” (NIV). Therefore, encourage those who may be struggling in their walk with Christ and challenge those who try to denounce the Word of God.

Have humility. Above all, humility is the greatest qualification in working for God. John 13:1–20 depicts the ultimate act of humility, when Jesus washed the disciples’ feet. Another word for humility is humbleness. Jesus lowered Himself and served His disciples by washing their feet, even though the disciples didn’t know why He would do such a deed. After Jesus finished, He said, in John 13:15, 16, “ ‘I have set you an example that you should do as I have done for you. Very truly I tell you, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him’ ” (NIV). Jesus set forth this example and told them to do the same.

**React**

`1. Why is humility so important in serving and working for God?`

`2. What can you do to encourage those who are new to the faith and those who are part of the church but are compromising in their beliefs?`

---

_Everett Scott, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_