---
title:  Living on Purpose
date:  20/12/2018
---

**Opinion**: Ps. 133:1; Matt. 28:18–20

What is your purpose? Why were you created? We often forget our purpose for living on earth. Sometimes we get wrapped up in earthly successes, such as being top of our graduating class, going to college, getting the highest- paying job, or becoming famous. But is that why God placed us on this earth? Matthew 28:18–20 says that we, His disciples, are to go out baptizing and teaching people about Him, our Lord and Savior. Therefore, our purpose is to teach our peers, teachers, or even our parents about God and His second coming.

One thing we lack today is unity. As church members and leaders we must make ourselves available to our neighbors, coworkers, and those living in unfortunate circumstances. We must bring as many as we can together in love and harmony. Psalm 133:1 says, “How good and pleasant it is when God’s people live together in unity!” (NIV). We are the peace this world so desperately needs! We are the peacemakers! But in order to achieve such a goal, we must reflect on our own character and spiritual connection with God. Are you ashamed, afraid, or embarrassed to talk about God and heaven? Are you a nonconfrontational person? Fear not! You have the inside scoop and all the information there is to know about something bigger and better than anything this world could offer: a life with Jesus. Close your eyes and imagine. Imagine a life with no pain, a life where you could play with lions and tigers and bears, a life where you are never tired. That sounds great to me! However, it is our responsibility to make our brothers and sisters in Christ aware of this great opportunity before it is too late. We must never feel as if we have all the time in the world. Days turn into months—and months into years. If you haven’t noticed, the Lord said that He would shorten the days, or make time move faster, and I have noticed that time is flying. Possible people of God are dying without ever hearing about God because we are afraid or simply got wrapped up in our earthly successes. When you get lost in worldly successes, losing out on heavenly successes becomes possible. So let’s make this upcoming year a year of finding, of fulfillment, joy, peace, and purpose!

**React**

`1. Have I lost sight of my purpose? 2. How can I reclaim it? 3. What can I do that will effectively create unity and save God’s people?`

---

_Alaysia Bookal, Dania Beach, Florida, USA_