---
title:  More Than a Building!
date:  21/12/2018
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 20:26, 27

**Conclude**

When people think of the word church, they may think of a building that individuals go to on a particular day. Some may even consider the leaders, money taken up, or the different scheduled programs. Yes, these things are a huge part of what church is all about, but too often we forget why God instituted the church. We should gather in those particular buildings to become equipped by God to go out to minister. The individuals who meet in unity should saturate their communities with the gospel. This lesson challenges believers to look beyond the walls, become one with other members of the church through Christ, and go out and follow Christ’s example of service.

**Consider**

- Asking God to show you how you can contribute to the body of Christ to better His kingdom.
- Praying for the leaders of the church.
- Joining a church outreach group.
- Writing out the blessings you’ve witnessed by being part of the church of God.
- Spending a few hours after church on the Sabbath going out into the community and witnessing like Jesus did.
- Asking those who have gone before you how they came into the church.
- Inviting the Holy Spirit daily to use you to minister on your own and as a part of the church.
- Being mentored by a leader in your local church to eventually one day become another local church leader.


**Connect**

Acts 2, 15; The book of Ephesians.

General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists. Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual. (Silver Spring, MD: General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, 2015).

---

_Sonora Burrows, Huntsville, Alabama, USA_