---
title: 'State of the Heart'
date: 18/09/2021
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Corinthians 6:9–20**

**State of the Heart**

More than just looking at the physical and biological aspects of sexuality, this Bible study guide has emphasized and has attempted to draw a holistic picture of sexuality as intended by God, the Creator. Because sexuality encompasses the body, mind, spirit, intellect, emotion, and nearly every other aspect of human identity, one violation of sexuality impacts the whole being. Therefore, purity is not only a virtue to have, but the harmonious state of all these aspects working together as God intended. Philippians 4:8 points to a mindset that incorporates the intellectual, the ethical, the emotional, the moral, and the spiritual. This verse admonishes all to have this mindset of purity which encompasses all, including sexuality.

Scripture stresses that young people are to value purity (Ps. 71:5, 17; Prov. 5:18; Eccles. 12:1; 1 Tim. 4:12; Titus 1:15). Paul’s writings to one young disciple, Timothy, emphasize the role of the pure heart and conscience (1 Tim. 1:5; 3:9; 4:12; 5:2, 22; 2 Tim. 1:3; 2:21, 22). The Lord can powerfully use a generation of young people (and old too) who have minds clean and hearts pure!

Using the prophetic imagery of a woman as the church (cf. SS. 6:10; Jer. 6:2), Revelation describes a people, regardless of age, throughout history, who would have this purity. Chapter 12 describes this woman as clothed with the pure light of heaven—she represents the true church before (Rev. 12:5) and after the earthy ministry of Christ (Rev. 12:6). Later, the people of God at Christ’s Second Coming are represented as the 144,000 who are characterized by spiritual purity and loyalty (2 Cor. 11:2). What characterizes these people is that they are victorious and fulfill the God’s mission for His people!

In the highly sexualized world we live in, we are bound to have been exposed to all sorts of impurities out there, from the micro to the mega. How does one retrieve a sense of purity despite a violation, whether physical, emotional, or spiritual? How can Jesus help us live the pure life that 1 John 3:3 speaks of? These are the topics for this week’s study.

#### inScribe

Write out 1 Corinthians 6:9–20 from the Bible translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `