---
title:  Jesus Accused of Starting a Cult
date:   19/03/2026
---

### inVite

Even the best religious teachers cannot always escape being labeled as cult leaders. Jesus is the perfect example. Jesus knows what being falsely accused is all about. The religious establishment of the day accused Jesus of building a cult-like following of people who threatened society’s safety. They convinced people that Jesus was plotting to overthrow the government. With great disdain toward Jesus and contempt for His followers, they claimed, “We found this fellow perverting the nation” and “He stirs up the people” (Luke 23:2, 5).

The religious elites accused Jesus not only of subverting government authority but also of working in secret. Jesus reminded them that He shared His message openly, “and in secret I have said nothing” (John 18:20). In vain, the high priest tried to get Jesus to say something that could be used against Him. “He thought to draw out some statement to prove that He was seeking to establish a secret society, with the purpose of setting up a new kingdom.”–Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 698. The religious leaders accused Jesus of starting a secret society or cult group to lead a revolution. Jesus addressed the accusations calmly, emphasizing His transparency, integrity, openness, and consistency. Ironically, it was the Pharisees and Sadducees who had operated in secrecy, holding secret tribunals, manipulating Scripture, and plotting to kill Christ.

The apostles faced similar accusations in many places where they preached. Some of Paul’s bitterest enemies said that “we have found this man a plague, a creator of dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes” (Acts 24:5). The founders of the early church faced many misconceptions and false accusations against them. Public relations remained a severe challenge. Christians were very unpopular and viewed with suspicion.

True Christians cannot be guided by public opinion. False teachers typically face much less criticism than true teachers. Jesus warned, “Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for so did their fathers to the false prophets” (Luke 6:26). Followers of Christ today can also expect false reports to go viral and people to use derogatory labels against those who keep the commandments of God and have the faith of Jesus. When our words are twisted and our reputation smeared, we can gain courage knowing that Christ and the apostles suffered terrible misrepresentation as well. Christ’s example of speaking the truth lovingly should challenge His followers to be faithful no matter how much the world tries to shame them.

### Questions to consider

`How did Jesus respond to false narratives about His ministry?`

`What false accusations have you heard against your church? How did you respond?`