---
title:  Secret Societies
date:   20/03/2026
---

### inSight

Ellen White warned against joining secret societies: “The world is a theater; the actors, its inhabitants, are preparing to act their part in the last great drama. With the great masses of mankind there is no unity, except as men confederate to accomplish their selfish purposes. God is looking on. His purposes in regard to His rebellious subjects will be fulfilled. The world has not been given into the hands of men, though God is permitting the elements of confusion and disorder to bear sway for a season. A power from beneath is working to bring about the last great scenes in the drama—Satan coming as Christ, and working with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in those who are binding themselves together in secret societies. Those who are yielding to the passion for confederation are working out the plans of the enemy. The cause will be followed by the effect.”–Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 8 (1904), 27.

White delivered a strong testimony to Nathaniel Faulkhead, a Freemason who became a Seventh-day Adventist while retaining his membership in several secret societies. After quoting Isaiah 8:9–13, she wrote, “There are those who question whether it is right for Christians to belong to the Free Masons and other secret societies. Let all such consider the scriptures just quoted. If we are Christians at all, we must be Christians everywhere, and must consider and heed the counsel given to make us Christians according to the standard of God’s Word....

“When we accepted Christ as our Redeemer, we accepted the condition of becoming laborers together with God. We made a covenant with Him to be wholly for the Lord; as faithful stewards of the grace of Christ, to labor for the upbuilding of His kingdom in the world. Every follower of Christ stands pledged to dedicate all his powers, of mind and soul and body, to Him who has paid the ransom money for our souls. We engaged to be soldiers, to enter into active service, to endure trials, shame, reproach, to fight the fight of faith, following the Captain of our salvation.”–Ellen G. White, _Evangelism_ (1946), 618.

After receiving this testimony, Faulkhead resigned from all secret societies. White later wrote: “I am very thankful to our gracious heavenly Father that He has given you strength through His imparted grace to cut yourself loose from the Free Mason lodge and all that relates to the society. It was not safe for you to have any part with this secret order. Those who stand under the blood-stained banner of Prince Immanuel cannot be united with the Free Masons or with any secret organization.”–White, _Evangelism_, 622.

For more details about this story, visit: www.lineagejourney.com/read/nathaniel-faulkhead-freemason-to-adventist/.