---
title:  inQuire
date:   21/03/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it is important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**A healthy culture:**

1. What were the defining characteristics of the early church? How did they promote openness and generosity rather than secrecy and manipulation? Acts 2:41–47
2. Rather than withdrawing from society and clustering together, what happened to the early believers in the church? Why is this important? Acts 8:1
3. How much were the apostles motivated by money? How did they guard against financial corruption? Acts 8:18–22
4. How did the early church teach members to think and study for themselves rather than becoming blind followers? Acts 17:11; 1 Thess. 5:21

**Servant leadership:**

1. How does Christlike leadership contrast with worldly leadership? Matt. 20:25–28; 1 Pet. 5:2, 3
2. What is the danger of becoming completely devoted to one leader? 1 Cor. 1:10–13; 3:3–7
3. It is common for cult leaders to leverage fear and use intimidation to get what they want. Is God ever interested in forcing or manipulating people to follow or give? Josh. 24:15; 1 Kings 18:21; 2 Cor. 9:7

`Personal reflection: How can we respect and support good leaders without becoming blindly loyal?`

**False accusations:**

1. How was Jesus accused of starting a cult? Luke 23:2–5; John 18:20
2. What kinds of accusations were made against the apostles? Acts 24:5
3. Will God’s people always be well-liked and well-respected? Luke 6:26; Rev. 12:17

`Personal reflection: How is your church viewed in your community? How have you responded to prejudices or misperceptions?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- A healthy culture promotes openness, accountability, and generosity.
- Christians should beware of leaders who use tactics of fear, intimidation, coercion, and abuse of authority.
- Even the best leaders (including Jesus and the apostles) faced accusations of being cultish.