---
title:  Your Relationship with God
date:   28/03/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Revelation 3:14–22

How would you describe your relationship with God? Is it vibrant and strong? Do you invest time in this relationship, search His inspired Word, and talk to Him as a Friend? If so, how much time do you spend? Do you feel compelled to tell others about your relationship with God because it’s the most wonderful relationship in your life? Or has your relationship with God waned over time? It’s there, yes, and you check in from time to time, but to be honest, it’s not all that strong anymore. Perhaps you’re somewhere in between—what the Bible calls “lukewarm” (Rev. 3:16). Maybe you’ve slipped into a state of apathy where you’ve lost your passion and your close connection with God.

The angels must wonder why we don’t live in adoration of our Savior and Redeemer, with hungry hearts and eager minds to grow closer to God every day. Truly, a relationship with God changes everything—both here and throughout eternity. Nothing could be more important than our connection with God, yet we don’t always prioritize it as such.

Have you ever wondered what Jesus might say if He were to describe your current relationship with Him? Perhaps He’d say it’s strong, or maybe that it was stronger in the past. Have you ever wondered what Jesus might say if He were to describe His people in these last days? In Revelation 3:14–22, Jesus actually does describe them. He begins by stating that He is the “Faithful and True Witness, the Beginning of the creation of God” (Rev. 3:14). A faithful and true witness doesn’t lie but speaks plainly and honestly. Jesus tells us Christians who live in the last days that He knows us. He says we’re neither hot nor cold because in our own eyes, we don’t need anything. The days and weeks pass by, and we spend a little time with God here and there, and we think that’s enough. But it’s not. We need Him far more desperately than we realize. If only we would love and live for Jesus wholeheartedly. From God’s perspective, He would even rather we live completely apart from Him than be lukewarm. Jesus says He’ll vomit us out of His mouth because we taste as bad as we are. But He hasn’t yet done this, and He asks us to reevaluate our true condition and make some bold choices right now.

Christ comes to His people in the last days as One who knows us better than we know ourselves. It’s easy to feel spiritually secure and safe and say to ourselves, “I am rich, have become wealthy, and have need of nothing” (Rev. 3:17). It’s startling to hear Christ say in the same verse that He has a very different view of us—that we are “wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked.” Christ gives an alarming spiritual diagnosis that challenges our self-perceptions. However, His words are not meant to condemn or reject but to heal, invite, and redeem.

In ancient times, “buying” something meant bartering or exchanging goods. Jesus generously offers to exchange our apathy for His gold, for His white garments, and for His eye salve. He wants to make us rich according to His standards, to cover us with His perfect robe of righteousness, and to open our eyes to see the truth of how an abiding relationship with Him changes absolutely everything. He offers us all we need because we can’t provide for ourselves what we need the most. He alone can—and He will, but only if we’re willing to let Him.

This week, let’s consider the current state of our relationship with God and what the Bible advises us. Indeed, we can’t move from where we are to someplace better until we honestly admit our desperate need and embrace the solution Jesus offers.

### inScribe

`Write out or make an outline of Christ’s message to the Laodiceans in Revelation 3:14–22. How well do these verses describe you personally?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.