---
title:  Dining with Jesus
date:   29/03/2026
---

### inGest

In His message to Laodicea in Revelation 3:14–22, Christ confronts and challenges us but also invites us and appeals to our hearts. To believers in the last days, He says, “As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Therefore be zealous and repent” (Rev. 3:19). None of us, even for a second, could justly say that Jesus does not care about us or our future. Think of how much easier it would’ve been for Jesus to give up on humankind and not travel that painful road here on earth. He did so because He loves us, and it’s precisely because He loves us so deeply that He rebukes us in our current state. He wants a much stronger, much deeper relationship with us. He’s not satisfied with our on-and-off attitudes, our “I’ll come to Him when I need Him” approach. He rebukes us for our own good. He tells us to repent. We can’t repent unless we realize there’s something wrong, but He’s told us exactly what’s wrong with us: we think we’re rich, but we’re actually “wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked” (Rev. 3:17). Amazingly, our undesirable condition does not make us undesirable to Jesus. No, Jesus longs for us and comes to us seeking entrance into our hearts. “If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with Me” (Rev. 3:20). What a beautiful and extraordinary thought! The God of the universe wants to sit down to a meal with you. He desires mutual engagement and conversation over good food. He wants a close, abiding relationship, and He invites us to have this with Him.

Jesus stands patiently waiting and knocking at the door of your heart. Perhaps you’ve seen depictions of this truth in children’s books—a tall, graceful Savior, knocking gently. He doesn’t barge in and force you to talk with Him. He doesn’t impose on your time or interrupt your busy life. He waits for you to accept His invitation. Time is short, so if you hear Him, open the door. He will be there to step into your life.

This metaphor illustrates the kind of relationship Jesus wants to have with each of us. One day, when we meet Jesus face-to-face, when we cast our crowns at His feet in adoration and praise with thousands upon thousands of others (Rev. 4:9–11; 5:11–14), when we try to recall our earthly trials and find that they dim into insignificance, do you think at that point we could ever regret the time we spent with Jesus during our time on earth?

**Questions to explore:**

`Jesus is knocking. He is calling to you, right now. But you must make a conscious choice to open your heart to Him. How can contemplating the cross and what it means inspire you to make that choice?`