---
title: 'Overcoming Apathy'
date: 31/03/2026
---

### inTerpret

After depicting our apathetic condition, Jesus tells us it’s something to be overcome. “To him who overcomes I will grant to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne” (Rev. 3:21). For some of us, the greatest battle we will ever face will be realizing our weak, self-sufficient condition, accepting Jesus’ rebuke, repenting, and receiving Jesus’ robe of righteousness.

What’s so amazing is that while Jesus was never lukewarm, He understands our apathetic, lukewarm condition and identifies with us. He says, “To him who overcomes… as I also overcame” (Rev. 3:21). When He died to save us, Jesus overcame sin and its penalty. He understands the battles of sin we face and promises to help us.

Jesus doesn’t simply see us for who we are; He sees us in terms of the potential we have. He sees beyond our current condition and sees great possibilities in us. When we become discouraged with ourselves and feel like we are stuck right where we are, Christ gives us hope to break free and become a new person. Our attitude right now does not have to be our attitude forever. Even if we’ve lost our love for God and currently feel indifferent toward Him, Jesus is ready to reset the relationship and help us make a fresh start.

The truth is, God has always desired to be close to humankind. No matter what your relationship with God is like today, He wants to be close to you. We can see this truth in Jeremiah 31:3, 4: “The Lord has appeared of old to me, saying: ‘Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love; Therefore with lovingkindness I have drawn you. Again I will build you, and you shall be rebuilt.’” Jeremiah’s message was delivered to a nation that had wandered far from God—and not out of ignorance; it was a willing departure from the Creator. Even when we knowingly turn away from God and allow our relationship with Him to wither, God is eager for us to return and restore our connection with Him.

Whether your day is beginning or ending right now, God is seeking you and waiting, wanting to draw you closer to Him. He wants to build, or rebuild, your relationship with Him.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways from this passage?`

`If you find it painful to look at yourself and your own spiritual condition, what hope do these verses offer you?`

`What things in your life right now can and do hinder your relationship with God? Pray that the Holy Spirit helps you discern and overcome these roadblocks.`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Revelation 3:14–22. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._