---
title: 'Connected to the Vine'
date: 02/04/2026
---

### inVite

In His last moments with the disciples before His crucifixion, Christ described to His disciples the kind of close relationship they needed to have with Him. In John 15:1–11, Jesus used the metaphor of tender branches connecting to the vine to depict how much we depend on our connection with Him. Notice the word that’s repeated—not just twice but ten times: abide. To abide in Jesus is to live in close, intimate connection with Him.

If we abide in Him, we will produce more fruit in the long-term. Fruit-bearing is the evidence that we are connected to the Vine and confirms that we are His disciples. The fruit that God cultivates in our lives includes the fruits of the Spirit (Gal. 5:22, 23) and the harvest of souls that comes from our witness for Christ (John 4:4:35–38). We bear fruit to bring glory to Him, not to ourselves. Abiding in Jesus means keeping His commandments, which are a reflection of His beautiful character of unselfish love (1 John 3:24).

Abiding in Christ sometimes feels like one of the hardest things to do. We might know it’s what we need, but the rush of life pulls us into its stream and it all feels too hard. Sometimes religion can feel like drudgery because it’s all about external actions rather than what’s in the heart. Nothing could be further from what God desires, which is a relationship based on mutual love and free choice, not just rules—a relationship in which He first chose you (1 John 4:19).

Sometimes we might be partly connected to the Vine but not really abiding with every fiber of our being. We might go to church, pray, and do what we know is right, but inside we feel shriveled up. The truth is, we can’t make ourselves abide in Jesus any more than a branch can make itself connect to a vine. God loved us first; He made the first move. Our role is to respond to what God has first done for us.

During the cold winter, the buds on a grapevine’s branches remain dehydrated and dormant until spring arrives. When the soil warms up, the roots absorb water, the sap flows up through the trunk of the vine, and new life enters the branches, which bear fruit during the summer. The sap in a grapevine is like the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. We might be like a dead branch, but when we choose to spend time with God, the Holy Spirit enters us like sap and brings us to life so that we start to grow. Just as we need to make a conscious choice to want to abide in Jesus, we must also ask for the Holy Spirit, the Sap, to flow into our lives (Luke 11:13).

**Questions to consider:**

`Reflect on your life. Can you identify any events that have lulled you into spiritual apathy? What events have drawn you closer to God?`