---
title: inQuire
date: 04/04/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Evaluating our relationship with God:**

1. What does it mean when our spiritual condition is neither hot nor cold? Rev. 3:14–16
2. What does God offer to those who are blind to their own spiritual problems? Rev. 3:17, 18
3. What kind of relationship does God seek to have with each one of us? Rev. 3:19–22

`Personal reflection: Be brutally, painfully frank with yourself about your relationship with God. What obstacles most often hinder your connection with God? What conscious choices do you need to make to have the closeness with Him that He so deeply wants?`

**Abiding in Christ:**

1. What does it look like to abide in Christ? Besides John 15:1–11, consider 1 John 2:3–6 and 1 John 4:12–16.
2. Contrast a lukewarm relationship with Christ with one of constant abiding in Him. John 15:1–11
3. What’s the Holy Spirit’s role in helping us continue to abide in Christ? Rom. 8:9–11; 1 John 4:13

`Personal reflection: What might change if we as a church were to pray for the Holy Spirit more earnestly and more regularly?`

**God’s love:**

1. What does it mean that God wants to be our friend? John 15:15
2. How constant is God’s love for us, even despite our wandering? Jer. 31:3, 4

`Personal reflection: How has God shown His love to you?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Before we can grow in our relationship with God, we must first stop and consider what our current relationship with Him is like.
- If our relationship with God is withering, Christ offers the perfect solution for our spiritual condition: to abide in Him.
- God has always wanted a close relationship with humanity. He desires you—specifically you!