---
title:  Paul Meets With The Leaders Of The Jerusalem Church
date:   09/09/2018
---

Paul arrived in Jerusalem. There Paul stayed with a believer named Mnason. The Christians who were friends with Mnason gave Paul a warm welcome (Acts 21:16, 17).

In Acts 21:18–22, James and the Jerusalem church leaders said they were worried about how the strict Jews felt about Paul. These strict Jews followed the law of Moses very carefully. The Jerusalem church leaders were told that Paul taught Jewish believers to stop following the law of Moses and the “religious act of becoming a Jew and not to follow old religious ways of worship” (Acts 21:21, NRSV). 

Of course, these stories about Paul were not true. Paul always taught that we can do nothing to earn the gift of being saved. Paul said both Jews and non-Jews were saved only by faith in Jesus (Romans 2:28, 29; Galatians 5:6; Colossians 3:11). Paul never taught Jews to stop obeying the law. Paul did not teach the Jews to stop doing what the law asked them to do. Obeying the law does not mean we are saved by our own good works. But some people twist the reason for why we need to obey the law. How? They say we should obey the law because good behavior will save us.  

`Read Acts 21:23–26. As these verses show us, how does Paul show that he continues to be a loyal Jew?`

The church leaders told Paul to do something to prove he was a loyal Jew. They told him to show his support for some Jews who wanted to take the Nazarite oath. The Nazarite oath is a special promise that a Jewish male said to show that he gave his whole life to God.

Sadly, Paul followed their advice. Heroes, even in the Bible, have weaknesses. Someone may say that Paul was just following his normal rule of acting the same as a Jew when working with other Jews (1 Corinthians 9:19–23). But Paul gave in more than he should have. His behavior made people think the Good News for the Jews was different than the Good News for the non-Jews. Paul’s behavior made people think non-Jews were saved by faith, but Jews were saved by their works. “God did not give Paul permission to do as much as the Jews asked him to do.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders], page 405, adapted.