---
title:  Trouble In The Temple
date:   10/09/2018
---

Paul accepts the church leaders’ advice. He agrees to show support for the group of Jews who take the Nazarite oath. The Nazarite oath is a special promise a Jewish male says to show that he gives his whole life to God. What does Paul need to do to show his support? Paul will need to be made “clean.” What does it mean to be made “clean”? It means that Paul will need to follow certain Jewish religious rules. This part will last seven days. This seven-day cleaning must happen before Paul can help the men say their Nazarite oath (Numbers 19:11–13). Jewish laws say that any person who comes from non-Jewish lands is not clean and cannot enter the temple. So, Paul must make himself clean first before he can go to the holy leaders. Then he can tell them that he made himself clean so that he can help the men finish their oath (Acts 21:26). 

`Read Acts 21:27–36. As these verses show us, what happens to Paul at the end of this seven-day period?`

A big fight breaks out. Some men in the crowd blame Paul for trying to destroy the Jewish religion and for not respecting the temple. Trophimus from Ephesus travels with Paul at this time. Trophimus is one of Paul’s friends. Trophimus is also a non-Jewish believer (Acts 21:29). The Jews beating Paul think that Paul invited Trophimus into the temple where only Jews can go. If Paul really did that, then Paul is guilty of an awful crime. A wall separates the inside of the temple from the outside part. There are signs with words on this wall. These signs warn non-Jewish visitors not to enter, or they will be put to death.

The Roman army leader in the city hears about the wild fight. The Roman army leader’s name is Claudius Lysias (Acts 21:31, 32; Acts 23:26). Claudius Lysias comes to the temple with troops. The troops save Paul before the crowd kills him. The troops arrest Paul and put him in chains while Claudius Lysias tries to understand what is going on. The crowd shouts wildly against Paul. So, the army leader takes Paul to the Roman war building in Jerusalem.

`False stories help start this wild fight. Why must we take care not to believe false stories or tell them to other people?`