---
title:  Paul Stands In Front Of The Crowd
date:   11/09/2018
---

Acts 21:37–40 tells us what happens next to Paul. The Roman troops take Paul back to the Roman war building to ask him questions. Paul asks Claudius Lysias, who is the Roman army leader, to let him speak to the crowd of people who want him to die. 

Paul speaks to the Roman army leader in the Greek language. So, Claudius Lysias thinks that Paul is a certain Jew from Egypt. In the past, this Jew from Egypt started a war in Jerusalem against the Roman rulers. The Roman army stopped this war. The Jew from Egypt escaped, but many of his followers were arrested or killed. 

Paul tells the Roman army leader that he is from Tarsus, not from Egypt. So, the Roman army leader allows Paul to speak. Paul does not talk about the crimes that the crowd says Paul did (Acts 21:28). Paul tells the crowd his story about how he becomes a Christian. He talks about how he is a loyal Jew who killed believers in Jesus in the past. But then the Lord shows Himself to Paul. Paul cannot turn away from this truth. Paul’s belief in Jesus changes his whole life. That is why Paul preaches the Good News about Jesus to non-Jews. Paul does not argue with the angry crowd about Bible teachings. But Paul tells the crowd about his own experience and why he preaches to the non-Jews. 

`Read Acts 22:22–29. What does the angry crowd do when Paul says that God chose him to preach to the non-Jews?`

The Roman army leader’s choice to let Paul speak does not have a good ending. When Paul says that God sent him to work with the non-Jews, the crowd judges Paul guilty of the crimes they say he did (Acts 21:28). They get very angry.

Maybe the Roman army leader does not understand everything Paul says. So, he decides to punish Paul. Paul is a Jew by birth (Philippians 3:5). But he is also a Roman citizen. When Paul tells the Roman army leader that he is Roman citizen, the Roman army leader does not beat him. That is because Roman soldiers were not allowed to hurt or beat Roman citizens. 

`Why does Paul tell his story in Acts 22:1–22 about how he became a Christian? What makes our stories so powerful about how we gave our lives to Jesus and became Christians?`