---
title:  Paul Stands Trial In Front Of The Jewish Religious Leaders
date:   12/09/2018
---

The Roman army leader saw that Paul was not dangerous to the Roman Kingdom. So, the Roman army leader sent Paul to the Sanhedrin (Acts 22:30; Acts 23:29). The Sanhedrin was the ruling group of religious leaders for the Jews in Jerusalem. They understood Jewish law and acted as judges.

`Read Acts 23:1–5. How does Paul start his sermon to the Sanhedrin?` 

Paul’s first sentence earned him a slap on the mouth. Maybe Paul got slapped because what he said about God did not sound loyal. What Paul said next shows us exactly who he is. Paul said the top religious leader in the Sanhedrin was a “ ‘white-washed wall!’ ” (Acts 23:3, NLV). These words were a copy of Jesus’ words to the religious leaders in Matthew 23:27. But Paul had no idea that he was talking to the top religious leader in the Sanhedrin. So, it is true that he really did have bad eyesight. 

`Read Acts 23:6–10. What clever words does Paul use to try to break up the trial?`

The Sanhedrin is made up of two groups: the Pharisees and Sadducees. These groups often argue with each other about Jewish teachings. Pharisees believe in obeying the law very carefully. Sadducees do not believe that the dead will wake up and come back to life (Matthew 22:23–32). 

Paul’s smart words (Acts 23:6) are more than just a way to break up his trial. The Sanhedrin is really judging Paul for teaching that the dead will come back to life (Acts 24:20, 21; Acts 26:6–8). Nothing else explains how Paul changed from chasing and killing Christians to preaching about Jesus. What if Jesus never came back from the dead? Then Paul’s work means nothing at all, and he knows it (1 Corinthians 14:15–17). 

That night, the Lord comes to Paul with this message of hope: “ ‘Paul, do not be afraid! You will tell about Me in the city of Rome the same as you have told about Me in Jerusalem’ ” (Acts 23:11, NLV). This promise must mean a lot to Paul. For a long time, he wanted to preach in Rome (Acts 19:21; Romans 1:13–15; Romans 15:22–29). Finally, he will get that chance.