---
title:  Paul Is Sent To Caesarea
date:   13/09/2018
---

A group of men tried to get rid of Paul by putting him on trial at court. But that plan did not work. So, the group decided to kill Paul on their own. 

`Read Acts 23:12–17. As these verses show us, what does the group plan to do? How does God make their plan fail? People can have strong feelings that lead them to support wrong ideas. How do these verses show us this truth?` 

More than 40 Jews made a secret plan to hurt Paul. They took an oath to kill him. This oath shows us just how much they hated Paul. Luke does not tell us who the men were. But they were willing to do anything to protect the Jewish faith from its enemies. Sadly, this story is only one of many examples at this time of stubborn men with hard hearts who wanted to “protect” the Jewish religion.

But God allowed the news about the secret plan to reach Paul’s nephew. It is sad that we know almost nothing about Paul’s family. But it seems that Paul and his sister grew up in Jerusalem (Acts 22:3). Paul’s sister married and had one son. Paul’s nephew was a teenager. How do we know? Did you see that, in Acts 23:19, Captain Lysias “took [Paul’s nephew] by the hand” (NLV)? Captain Lysias’ action shows us that Paul’s nephew was young. And so does the Greek word “neaniskos” (Acts 23:18, 22). “Neaniskos” is written as “young man” in the ERV. Paul’s nephew visited the war building and told Paul about the secret plan. 

`Read Acts 23:26–30. What message does Captain Lysias send to governor Felix about Paul?`

Lysias’s letter tells Felix about Paul. The letter also shows how good it is for Paul to be a Roman citizen. The Roman law fully protects its citizens. By law, citizens are allowed to have a trial in front of a judge and explain their behavior in a court of law. They also can go before the King of Rome to complain that they did not get a fair trial (Acts 25:10, 11). So, Felix is fair to Paul. Felix asks Paul many questions. Then Felix orders soldiers to guard Paul until his accusers arrive. 

`Think about everything God does for Paul. How often do you thank God for all the good things in your life?`