---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   14/09/2018
---

“At this time, Paul and his friends take the money that the non-Jewish churches collect and give it to the leaders of the work in Jerusalem. This money helps support the poor Jewish believers. . . . 

“The non-Jewish believers give these gifts of money because they want to help. The gifts show that the non-Jewish Christians believe God’s work must be done all over the earth. The leaders in Jerusalem should accept the gifts with thankful hearts. But Paul and his friends see that many leaders in Jerusalem do not see the spirit of love in the hearts of their non-Jewish brothers in the faith when they give the gifts.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders and Teachers], pages 399, 400, adapted. 

“What will happen if the church leaders stop being unkind to Paul? What if the leaders accept Paul as God’s messenger to the non-Jews? Then the Lord will save Paul’s life. God does not plan for Paul’s work to end so soon. The church leaders do nothing to stop Paul’s death. They start many of the problems that lead to Paul’s being killed. But God does not work a miracle to stop Paul’s death. 

“Today the same unkind spirit is leading people to do the same things that happened in Paul’s day. When we do not thank God for the gifts He gives us, we turn away from many good things that God wants to give us. Many times, God wants to let a pastor work more and for a longer time than the pastor already works. But God does not let him continue to work, because nobody gives thanks to God for this pastor’s work. The church must not allow Satan to twist their thinking so that they do not understand the words and acts of God’s worker. The church must not to get in this worker’s way or stop him from helping people. When the church does these wrong things, then God sometimes takes away from the church the many good things that He gave them.”—Pages 417, 418, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Paul knew he would not be welcome in Jerusalem, but he went anyway. He made the needs of the church more important than his own. How much should we copy Paul’s behavior?` 

`2.	As church members, we need to get along with each other and have peace. How can we learn to work together when we have different ideas about things?`