---
title:  Christ as the Center
date:   04/03/2018
---

Jesus is the central figure throughout the Bible (John 5:39), and we need to see ourselves in relationship to Him. He paid the penalty for sin and is “a ransom for many” (Mark 10:45). Jesus has all authority in heaven and earth (Matt. 28:18), and all things are in His hands (John 13:3). His name is higher than all others, and one day every knee shall bow down to Him (Phil. 2:9-11).

“Jesus is the living center of everything.” - Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 186.

Christ is the heart of our stewardship and the source of our power. Because of Him, we produce a life worth living, demonstrating to all that He is the central focus of our lives. Paul may have experienced many trials, but no matter where he was or what happened to him, he had one priority for living: “For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain” (Phil. 1:21, NKJV).

`Read Colossians 1:16-18, Romans 8:21, and 2 Corinthians 5:17. What do they tell us about just how central Jesus is to everything about us?`

There is no genuine stewardship without Christ being our central core (Gal. 2:20). He is the center of “that blessed hope” (Titus 2:13), and “He is before all things, and in Him all things consist” (Col. 1:17, NKJV). Just as the axle is the center of the wheel and thus carries the weight of a wagon, Christ is the center of the steward’s life. Just as a solid axle provides stability, allowing the wheels to rotate, Jesus is also the fixed and stable center of our Christian existence (Heb. 13:8). His influence should affect everything we think and do. All aspects of stewardship rotate around and find their center in Christ.

“For without Me you can do nothing” (John 15:5, NKJV). The center of stewardship is not a hollow void but the reality of the living Christ, who is working in us to mold our characters now and for eternity.

`It’s one thing to say that Jesus is the core of our life, but it’s another to live as if He is. How can you be sure that Jesus is, indeed, living in you as He promises He will if we will but let Him in?`
