---
title:  Sanctuary Doctrine
date:   05/03/2018
---

One doesn’t usually think of the sanctuary in the context of stewardship. Yet the link is there because the sanctuary is so crucial to our belief system, and stewardship is part of the system. “The correct understanding of the ministration [of Christ] in the heavenly sanctuary is the foundation of our faith.” - Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 221. It is imperative that we understand the role of stewardship in light of this biblical concept.

First Kings 7:33 describes a chariot wheel. We will illustrate the sanctuary doctrine as the hub of the wheel. The hub attaches to the axle and provides more stability for the wheel when it turns. Having experienced death and a victorious resurrection (2 Tim. 1:10), Christ through His death is the foundation for His work in the sanctuary (Heb. 6:19, 20) and provides the stability for our faith. And it is from the sanctuary that He ministers in our behalf here on earth (see Heb. 8:1, 2).

“Standing on the sola Scriptura [Scripture alone] principle, Biblical Adventism builds its doctrinal system from the general perspective of the sanctuary doctrine.” - Fernando Canale, Secular Adventism? Exploring the Link Between Lifestyle and Salvation (Lima: Peru, Peruvian Union University, 2013), pp. 104, 105.

`What do these texts tell us about Jesus’ ministration in the sanctuary? 1 John 2:1, Heb. 4:14-16, Rev. 14:7.`

The sanctuary doctrine helps reveal the great truth of salvation and redemption, which is at the core of all Christian theology. In the sanctuary we see not only Christ’s death for us, but His ministry in the heavenly sanctuary as well. We can see, too, in the Most Holy Place the importance of God’s law and the reality of final judgment. Central to it all is the promise of redemption made available to us by the shed blood of Jesus.

The role of stewardship reflects a life anchored in the great truth of salvation, as revealed in the sanctuary doctrine. The more deeply we understand what Christ has done for us and what He is doing in us now, the closer we come to Christ, His ministry, His mission, His teaching, and His intent for those who live out the principles of stewardship in their lives.

`Read Hebrews 4:14-16. What is found there for us in our own struggle with sin, self, and selfishness? How do we draw strength and hope from what is promised us there?`
