---
title:  The Three Angels’ Messages
date:   07/03/2018
---

Only twice has God warned the world of coming catastrophe: once to Noah (Gen. 6:13-18, Matt. 24:37) and the other through the three angels’ messages (Rev. 14:6-12). These messages pull back a curtain to reveal a unique perspective on future world events. Our understanding of these messages has matured over time, but the message and mission are still justification by faith in Christ, “the third angel’s message in verity.” - Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 190. In other words, at the core of our present truth message, the message we have been called to proclaim to the world, stand Jesus and His great sacrifice for us.

`Read Revelation 14:6-12. What is the essence of these messages? What are they saying to the world? What responsibility rests upon us in regard to these messages, and how does stewardship fit in?`

As Seventh-day Adventists, our mission is to present the truth of the three angels’ messages in preparation for the second coming of Christ. People must be able to make a decision regarding eternity. The role of stewardship is a partnership with God in mission (2 Cor. 5:20, 6:1-4).

“In a special sense Seventh-day Adventists have been set in the world as watchmen and light bearers. To them has been entrusted the last warning for a perishing world. On them is shining wonderful light from the Word of God. They have been given a work of the most solemn import - the proclamation of the first, second, and third angels’ messages. There is no other work of so great importance. They are to allow nothing else to absorb their attention.” - Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 19.

That rim of a wheel is near the point of contact with the ground and represents the mission of the three angels’ messages. Their mission is to protect against theological drift and identifies our responsibility in the last-day events. We are to be stewards of this message, proclaiming it to the world.

`It’s so easy, as we think of last-day events, to get caught up in charts and dates. They have their role, but how, as we seek to preach this message to the world, can we make sure we keep Jesus and His sacrifice for us front and center?`
