---
title:  Further Thought
date:   09/03/2018
---

At times chariot wheels had to have the band of iron reset because of stretching caused by the metal’s striking against the road. This resetting took a lot of hard banging and hammering on the iron band itself. This resetting of the band of iron represents stewardship as practical sanctification. It is having the mind of Christ when responding to every large or small aspect of life, even when the process can be hard and painful. Whether this process pertains to our use of money, family relations, or employment, to name a few, all are to be responded to in the will of Christ. Sometimes, as we all know too well, we can learn this lesson only through some hard knocks.

It’s not easy to reset iron. Nor is it easy to reset human character. Think of the experience of Peter. He had been everywhere with Jesus, but he didn’t expect these words from Jesus’ lips: “I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren” (Luke 22:32). Not too much later, after denying Jesus, Peter had a change in his life, but only after a very painful and difficult experience. In a sense, his stewardship was reset. Peter was converted anew, and his life was going to head in a new direction, but only after some real pounding.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. What does practical sanctification have to do with Jesus’ instruction to “let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily”? Luke 9:23, NKJV. What has been crucified? Gal. 6:14. How does this illustrate the process of sanctification? How does practical sanctification help us learn to think like God? 1 Cor. 2:16.`

`2. What has been your own experience regarding how painful trials can teach powerful lessons about Christian life and following the Lord? Let those in class who feel comfortable talk about those experiences and what they have learned. What can we learn from each other’s experiences as well?`

`3. Think about other beliefs that we as Seventh-day Adventists hold, be it the Sabbath, the state of the dead, Creation, the Second Coming, et cetera. In what ways should these various beliefs impact the conduct of our life in general?`
