---
title: A Life of Service
date: 07/09/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 16:19–31**

**A Life of Service**

Amy Carmichael was born in the small village of Millisle, Ireland, in 1867. She was the oldest of seven siblings and came from a well-off family. As a small girl, Amy once visited Belfast with her mother. During their time in the city, they dined at a café. As they ate, a grimy little beggar girl pressed her nose up against the window. The poor little girl with no food looked longingly at the rich little girl enjoying her plateful of food. The gaze in the girl’s eyes affected Amy deeply. When Amy returned home, she sat down in front of the fireplace and wrote down a promise to the beggar girl: “When I grow up and money have, / I know what I will do, / I’ll build a great big and lovely place / For little girls like you” (Janet and Geoff Benge, Amy Carmichael: Rescuer of Precious Gems [1998], 33).

As a young lady, Amy Carmichael had a burden to help the poor women in the slums of Belfast. These women were nicknamed “shawlies” because they could not afford hats and would pull their shawls up over their heads when they were out in the cold. Shawlies were not very welcome in church, so Amy fundraised and built a meeting place especially for them called the Tin Tabernacle.

Later, Amy moved to India, where she spent many years rescuing Hindu children from temple prostitution. Fulfilling her childhood dream, she provided a place of refuge for poor children. Under her leadership, a hospital was built in Dohnavur, India, which provided care for many people who could not afford medical help. Amy lived her life for others who were less fortunate than herself and in doing so fulfilled the calling God had placed on her. As well expressed in a statement often attributed to her, “One can give without loving, but one cannot love without giving.”

This week’s parable describes a rich man doing the very opposite of selfless service. It’s about a man who hoarded riches for himself and turned a blind eye to the obvious needs of those around him. We will discover how our choices today have eternal consequences for ourselves and others.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 16:19–31 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `