---
title: Outward Appearance
date: 08/09/2024
---

#### inGest

In the minds of many first-century Jews, wealth and health were directly connected to God’s favor. To challenge these assumptions, Jesus told a surprising parable about a rich man who lived in extravagant luxury and showed off his wealth with fancy clothes and gourmet feasts. His wealth granted him elite status and made him highly esteemed by the surrounding culture. People were convinced this man’s wealth was a sign of God’s blessing upon him.

Jesus contrasted this rich man with a poor, despised beggar named Lazarus. Many Jews would have argued that there must have been a spiritual reason for all his suffering and misfortune in life. They believed he must have sinned, resulting in God’s curse and judgment evidenced by his misery. Even the disciples judged people based on their life situations when they asked Jesus about a certain blind man. “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?” (John 9:2). The disciples incorrectly assumed that this misfortune of blindness was a sign of God’s direct displeasure toward the person. In the parable, Lazarus suffered poor health and a painful lack of food and other basic resources. He was at the very bottom of society, fully dependent on the mercy of others. In addition, he would have felt the condemnation that rested on individuals like himself.

However, Jesus concluded this story in a way that was the complete opposite of what they expected. At their deaths, both characters experienced a complete reversal of roles. Lazarus, the beggar, was carried to Abraham’s bosom, while the rich man ended up in the torment of Hades. Jesus taught that the outward appearance of riches cannot be equated with God’s blessing. Neither can a person’s suffering be interpreted as God’s curse. The beggar Lazarus, despite his life of hardship, trusted God and was granted a reward in heaven. The rich man, with a life of ease, trusted in his own wealth and status and in doing so separated himself from God forever.

It is interesting to note that the name of the beggar Lazarus is immortalized while the prosperous, influential rich man remains anonymous. The rich man certainly made a name for himself in this life, but in light of eternity, he will be forgotten. In the parable, Jesus revealed that it’s in this life that we decide our eternal destiny. Outward appearance is not what matters. What matters is where our heart is and who we trust.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why do we so easily judge each other based on outward appearances?`

`How can we do a better job of seeing people as God sees them?`