---
title: Moses and the Prophets
date: 11/09/2024
---

#### inVite

At the end of the parable, Jesus described the rich man begging Abraham to send Lazarus to warn his five brothers, lest they also come to the same place of torment. Abraham responded, “They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them” (Luke 16:29). The rich man thought this wouldn’t be enough and told Abraham that they would repent if one who had died went to speak to them. Abraham insisted, “If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rise from the dead” (Luke 16:31). “Moses and the prophets” refers to Scripture. Abraham’s reply was making the point that even the greatest miracles will not convince people who refuse the testimony of Scripture.

This parable illustrates the religious leaders’ rejection of Jesus’ ministry. The rich man represents the nation of Israel. God had richly blessed them with truths to share with the surrounding nations. However, like the rich man in the parable, they had refused to share with the beggar. Israel at large had not reached out to the nations around them with the incredible revelations of Scripture they had been entrusted with. Israel was surrounded by beggars, people longing for light.

The Jews believed they were better than other nations because they had descended from Abraham. John the Baptist warned the religious leaders about their false sense of entitlement: “Do not think to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones” (Matt. 3:9). Jesus also said, “If you were Abraham’s children, you would do the works of Abraham. But now you seek to kill Me.... Abraham did not do this” (John 8:39, 40). No wonder Jesus intentionally mentioned Abraham in the parable and depicted the rich man separated from the very one he admired. Abraham was rich, but he had a heart for the needy. His life of faith provided an example that Israel at large had failed to follow.

In the parable, Abraham pointed out twice that the rich man’s brothers had Moses and the prophets. On another occasion, Jesus pressed the same issue: “For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote about Me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?” (John 5:46, 47). The Jews failed to recognize Jesus as the promised Messiah foretold in Scripture. The parable’s final words describe Abraham telling the rich man that if his brothers didn’t heed Moses and the prophets, they wouldn’t be persuaded even if someone were to rise from the dead.

One of the crowning acts of Christ’s ministry was resurrecting a man named Lazarus, but even this did not persuade those who were set on killing Jesus. After Jesus’ crucifixion on Friday, He rose from the grave on Sunday morning, but sadly, even this miracle of miracles did not bring repentance. They had already ignored the clear prophecies of the Old Testament that pointed to Jesus. Once their unbelief had become entrenched, no miracle, even raising the dead, could change their minds.

`What is the danger of relying on miracles?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`