---
title:  Out of Sight, Out of Mind
date:  13/09/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 32:1—33:11

**Out of Sight, Out of Mind**

How do you lose God? This may seem like a silly question, but it was fast becoming a pressing issue for the Israelites, who began to panic after Moses climbed Mount Sinai to meet with God… and disappeared. Moses seemed to be lost. But the bigger problem was that God seemed to be lost. The Israelites thought they were alone.

The Exodus and the plagues in Egypt had happened months before. The Israelites had passed through the Red Sea and were miraculously provided with water to drink. They had defeated the Amalekites and had been eating the miracle food, manna, for weeks. They had trembled at God’s appearance on the mountaintop as He personally spoke His law to them. As the people waited for Moses to descend the mountain, it seems they had grown used to the miraculous. The daily manna, the cloud by day and the fire by night, and the rumbling from the top of Sinai had become ordinary, everyday experiences woven into their mundane lives.

What do we do when we can’t feel God? Do we, like the Israelites, give up hope almost immediately? You can be honest here; every one of us has experienced the uncomfortable transition from the mountaintop to the mundane. This story of the Israelites encourages us to be patient when we are waiting on God and to trust Him when we don’t immediately feel His presence or see Him moving. After waiting for forty days (Exod. 24:18), the Israelites still didn’t know where Moses was. Maybe they assumed he was dead. In any case, they abandoned their faith the first time God did not move in their timing since leaving Egypt. Perhaps they assumed He was just like all the other gods, fickle in His favor and provision. They truly did not know His longsuffering nature. Whether out loud or in their hearts, they declared Moses lost, and God along with him.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 32:30–35 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `