---
title:  Delay and Disappointment
date:  14/09/2025
---

#### inGest

In Exodus 24:12–14, we read that Moses ascended Mount Sinai to receive the stone tablets containing the Ten Commandments. Aaron and Hur were left in charge of the camp. Moses remained on the mountain with God for forty days and nights (Deut. 9:9), during which he also received instructions from God for building the tabernacle. Apparently, after a long period of unexpected delay waiting for Moses, the people were overcome with disappointment and despair and proposed to fabricate a god like the Egyptian gods they were familiar with. Aaron caved to the people’s demands. The people brought Aaron gold jewelry they had gotten from the Egyptians after the tenth plague, and he crafted an idol. They chose to make an image of a calf, perhaps because bull worship was common in both Egypt and Canaan. Bulls were the most expensive of the agrarian animals and were also the sacrifice that God dictated be offered when the anointed priest or the whole community of Israel sinned against Him (Lev. 4:1–21).

What happened next reveals the real issue of the entire fiasco. Aaron declared to the Israelites that the next day would be a “feast to the Lord” (Exod. 32:5). He didn’t give the new god a new name; he took the covenantal name of Yahweh that God had spoken to Moses months before when He first appeared to him in the burning bush. Aaron was attempting to keep the God of Moses alive in this new kind of worship. And what a worship service it was. “Then they rose early on the next day, offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play” (Exod. 32:6). They offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, just like God would later command be offered at His sanctuary. There was also “play.” The original Hebrew word here can be interpreted to mean a range of activities, from laughter and mocking to even amorous activity between lovers. This was the supposed worship of Yahweh led out by Aaron!

This fall into an idolatrous syncretistic worship of Yahweh was so defiant that God resolved to destroy the entire nation. This was God’s final reaction following the decisions of the people who had continually rebelled against His leading in their lives and could never seem to trust that He was present even if they couldn’t see Him. All their previous failures culminated in this day of carousing around an idol they had made with their own hands and which they reprehensibly named Yahweh. It was more than God could tolerate. God needed to wipe out this idolatrous profaning of His name, or it would spread.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 32:1—33:11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How do you handle delay and disappointment?`

`How would you have felt if you did so much for the Israelites only to be so thoroughly rejected in a moment of delay and disappointment?`