---
title:  The Intercessor
date:  15/09/2025
---

#### inTerpret

One of the most amazing stories of human intercession appears from this plunge into idolatry and near extinction. God’s threats of complete destruction are not idle or exaggerated. However, Moses remembered the profound love God showed when He spared Adam and Eve the day they ate the forbidden fruit. Believing in God’s promises and His mercy, Moses pleaded that God not destroy the Hebrew people.

God clearly wanted Moses to do something since the first thing He did was command Moses to “Go, get down!” (Exod. 32:7). This sounds very much like God asking Moses to stand in the breach and intercede for his people. Moses rose to the challenge, but instead of leaving the mountain as God ordered, he stayed and continued the conversation with God. As he interceded for the people’s lives, Moses highlighted that God’s own reputation with the Egyptians would be on the line. He reminded God that He Himself had brought them out of Egypt, and that they were His people (v. 11). Furthermore, God’s promise to the patriarchs would be broken if He destroyed them (v. 13).

Moses was acting on God’s behalf in this story, and when he went down the mountain and saw the idolatry of the people, his anger burned hot just like God’s had (v. 19). Moses was appalled at the open rebellion against God and the treason against His government that was unfolding only weeks after Israel had made a solemn covenant with Him. Moses ground the golden calf into dust and made the idolaters drink it to show the utter futility of their idol. Those who repented were spared, but those who stubbornly persisted in apostasy were executed (vv. 25–28). Moses continued his prayers of intercession the next day: “Oh, these people have committed a great sin, and have made for themselves a god of gold! Yet now, if You will forgive their sin—but if not, I pray, blot me out of Your book which You have written” (vv. 31, 32).

In this final act of intercession, Moses became a type to which Christ was the antitype. Moses said, “I don’t want my name in the Book of Life if their names are not included as well.” He would rather die in their place than that they be destroyed. But as a fellow sinner, Moses could not die in their place. His willingness pointed forward to the only One who could die as our Substitute.

Moses’ intercession between God and the people was successful, and while the Levites struck down the rebellious ones, the nation lived on. God’s promises to Abraham were ultimately fulfilled.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How would the story of the Old Testament be different if Moses hadn’t been successful in interceding for the Israelites?`