---
title:  The Lamb of God
date:  17/09/2025
---

#### inVite

While God told Moses that he could not die for the people’s sins, the same was not true of God’s Son. From the very beginning, Jesus’ goal was to die for our sins. When John saw Jesus walking toward him as he stood by the river, he said, “Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!” (John 1:29). As illustrated in the daily sacrifices of the sanctuary (Exod. 29:38), God’s Lamb came for one purpose: to die. But why did Jesus have to die?

Jesus came to our world as God’s answer to the serpent’s deception. In the Garden of Eden, Eve was deceived into not trusting God. Her sin was the same as the Israelites’ sin at Mount Sinai. When God was not visibly present, they lost trust in His word. When trust is broken, it is very hard to restore. The plan of salvation, established before the creation of the world, was God’s method of restoring trust with humanity.

This is why the question of Christ’s identity was so crucial. Throughout Jesus’ story in the four Gospels, the most important question is, “Who do people say that I am?” (Mark 8:27, ESV). Jesus came as God’s answer to the charge brought against Him by modern atheists that “The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving control-freak; a vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic, homophobic, racist, infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential, megalomaniacal, sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent bully” (Richard Dawkins, The God [2006], 31).

The lie that was believed in the Garden of Eden is that God does not work with our best interests in mind. Jesus came to answer accusations against God’s character and to demonstrate God’s unselfish love. Though He trembled at the price He had to pay (Matt. 26:37–39), He who knew no beginning was ready to sacrifice everything to save those who would nail Him to the cross. Moses asked to have his name wiped out of the book of life—he was willing to suffer the second death that the wicked will experience (Rev. 20:14, 15). While Moses could not pay this price on others’ behalf, Jesus could, and He did. Jesus experienced the second death for all humanity. His death was unlike the death of any before Him. He came to do what Moses and Paul wished they could do (Exod. 32:32; Rom. 9:3). Jesus came to show, once and for all, that God could not imagine eternity without us. He would rather cease to exist than live forever without us.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 32:1—33:11 again and look for Jesus.`

`How does Jesus’ life answer accusations against God’s character?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`