---
title:  Dealing With the Fungus of Sin
date:  30/03/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 13:24–30, 36–43**

**Dealing With the Fungus of Sin**

A young family recently decided to buy a house. Having found one they liked, they hired an inspector to take a thorough look at it to make sure there were no issues. A few days later, to their delight, the inspector reported that everything looked very good and the house was ready for purchase. Not long after the family moved in, however, the father went to the bathroom to freshen up after work. While there, he happened to glance down and couldn’t believe what he saw: there was a mushroom growing out of the floor! Within just a few hours, through a previously unnoticeable crack, the unwanted fungus had grown two inches tall in a place where nothing should grow! This happened even though the bathroom was cleaned regularly. Humidity had joined an airborne fungus particle in the crack and voila, the mushroom appeared. Disgusted and confused, he pulled it up and sprayed enough antibacterial and fungi-killing chemicals on the spot to eradicate all traces of it for all eternity.

Somehow, in God’s perfect universe, the “fungus of sin” sprouted, leading to a rapid growth of accusations and blame toward God and a seemingly endless flood of wickedness. Sin, pain, suffering, decay, wickedness, senselessness, and death—none were ever part of God’s plan for the universe. No created being nor any planet with all its flora and fauna was ever intended to experience such things. God had created all things perfect, pure, and very good. No issues. The universe was clean of sin, and yet here we are, daily faced with unexpected tragedies, the never-ending question of “why,” and the search for whom to blame.

Fortunately, God has chosen to deal with sin and will restore all things to vibrant purity and beautiful perfection. The delicate process of eradicating sin, facing and handling the originator of the rebellion, and ensuring the “sin fungus” never sprouts again is very costly to God. It’s a process that takes a long time and involves the entire universe, including you. It can cause frustration for those who wish for all of this to be over, but as this week’s study will reveal, there is a reason these things take such time.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 13:24–30, 36–43 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Matthew 13:36–39. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._