---
title:  Who is Responsible?
date:  31/03/2024
---

#### inGest

The parable of the wheat and the tares is unique to the book of Matthew. It was included to give us a glimpse into some basic but important questions regarding sin and its origin. The parable’s primary purpose is to explain certain realities about the kingdom of God in its current state on earth. It seeks to clarify why there are bad people among those who claim to follow a good God and why evil exists in a place created by a good God—legitimate questions most (young) people have probably asked at some point. These questions have caused much confusion and pain over the millennia.

In the beginning, God. In eternity past, long before our creation, there was only the Godhead—a unity of perfect, ever-flowing selfless love. Out of this love, God chose to share His life and create sinless, holy beings with the capacity to respond to His love based on their free will. Besides humans and animals on earth, the Bible mentions a variety of extraterrestrial created beings such as angels (e.g., Gen. 3:24; Dan. 7:10) and “living creatures” (Rev. 4:6). It also mentions “sons of God,” which some believe are representatives of other planets, each with their own civilization (see Job 1:6; Luke 3:38). When we consider the immeasurable vastness of the universe, even atheists often agree that there must be other sentient beings out there (see for example Sophie Lewis’ article “There May Be More Than 36 Intelligent Alien Civilizations in the Milky Way, Scientists Say” in CBS News, June 18, 2020).

The more beings God created with free will, the greater the risk that one of them would one day choose the path of unrighteousness became. Though it was irrational and inexplicable, Lucifer, the “anointed cherub” (Ezek. 28:14), made that choice, introducing evil and wickedness to the perfect universe. Jesus clearly identified who carries the responsibility for the origin of evil: “An enemy has done this”; “The enemy... is the devil” (Matt. 13:28, 39), whom the book of Revelation describes as the great dragon, “that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world” (Rev. 12:9).

God is responsible for creating Lucifer, but He is not responsible for Lucifer’s actions. We can’t place the responsibility for a terrible crime on the criminal’s parents, yet God gets blamed for the evil in this world all the time. “An enemy has done this” (Matt. 13:28, emphasis added). Satan is God’s enemy, and he is the originator of sin. Every horror and wickedness in human history finds its beginning in that fateful hour when Lucifer chose to rebel against God, love, truth, righteousness, holiness, and life.

While many questions remain about what God should or could have done (many of which we will tackle throughout the next few weeks), Jesus’ parable ends with a promise: sin, evil, the devil, and all who have joined his insurrection of lawlessness will eventually be destroyed, never to return (vv. 30, 41, 42). The great controversy will end, and the God of love has already won!

Journal:

`In what ways have you directly or indirectly blamed God for the problems and challenges you face?`

`Why did God not destroy Satan before he could do more harm? What’s the point of waiting?`