---
title:  Ensuring Maximum Redemption Potential
date:  01/04/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Often when the immediate future is uncertain, such as when starting a new job, a first date, or launching a business, we say platitudes like “We’ll see how it goes,” “It’s up in the air,” or “We’ll play it by ear.” Uncertainty can cause anxiety or hesitation about doing something new, but no matter how you feel about it, only time will tell whether the endeavor will succeed or not.

When God was faced with Satan’s rebellion, He had to decide how to respond. To God, nothing is uncertain. In His omniscience, He knows the future. He has no need to say, “We’ll see how it goes.” So, why was Satan not immediately destroyed? Why wait thousands of years of misery and pain before He “cast[s] them [Satan and all who joined his rebellion] into the furnace of fire” (Matt. 13:42)? Why not eradicate the disease of sin in its infancy? Jesus’ parable offers a surprising answer: “ ‘lest while you gather up the tares you also uproot the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest.’ ” (vv. 28–30). Uprooting evil too early would have caused collateral damage among those who had not yet seen the full results of sin.

The war between Christ and Satan is not occurring in secret and private meetings between the two parties; it began in the open (Rev. 12:7–12) and takes place in public still today. A public controversy of this magnitude requires a public process by which the questions raised and the pain inflicted are addressed. This procedure is called the judgment, which will be the topic of Week 11. The parable teaches us that for the sake of the wheat—“the sons of the kingdom” (Matt. 13:38)—God withholds judgment for a little while longer.

We can conclude that the process of “seeing how it goes” is vital for angels who pledge allegiance to God. The Father knows the truth, but they (and we) need to see the ripened results of rebellion against God and His law of life and love. The effects of sin and their inevitable result of death must become evident. The lies must be uncovered and disproven beyond a shadow of a doubt. Prematurely destroying Satan and his followers might have resulted in trust issues among the redeemed and the other created beings, and more might choose rebellion over salvation. God decided to confront this rebellion in the more time-consuming way because it’s the only approach that provides the maximum amount of redemption potential while still honoring free will. Everyone, including the lost, must understand why sin is evil and righteousness is good. All must see the matured outcome of both sides so that there will be no more questions about God’s benevolence and righteous integrity for all eternity. God’s patient handling of Satan’s accusations wins the love, trust, and confidence of all living beings so that none will ever again choose to rebel against Him.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what kinds of situations should we wait and see how it goes before passing judgment?`