---
title:  Maturing With the Son of Man
date:  03/04/2024
---

#### inVite

Anyone who has a garden knows that good seeds are essential. Various factors such as genetics and seed vigor must be considered when selecting seeds. High quality seeds are genetically pure, meaning they haven’t been crosspollinated with other varieties or with foreign seeds. Seeds with high vigor produce stronger and more resilient plants that can better resist pests and diseases. Good seeds are crucial for lasting, repeating, and abundant harvesting cycles.

“The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field,” and “He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man” (Matt. 13:24, 37, emphasis added), who is, of course, Jesus. This statement is incredibly important in light of the great controversy. Satan claims that God cannot be trusted—that He is not good, but here, we are presented with the truth that Jesus only sows good seeds. He only does what is good, for He is only good. “God is light and in Him is no darkness at all” (1 John 1:5).

The “good seeds are the sons of the kingdom” (Matt. 13:38). These are the people who, in their “germination” and continued development, choose to make God the source of their lives and salvation. Jesus ensures their purity through His righteousness and their spiritual vigor through His Word and Spirit. Consequently, and by God’s grace, their lives are marked by repeatedly yielding an abundance of good fruit.

The tares (weeds) represent “the sons of the wicked one” (v. 38). The reason they will ultimately be destroyed is that they “offend, and... practice lawlessness” (v. 41). The Greek word used in the text indicates that this is not just the occasional sin but a continued attitude of offense—an unrelenting or unchanging practice of lawlessness. These individuals have chosen to remain continually in rebellion against love, truth, and righteousness, repeatedly rejecting the offer of grace and the joy of an eternal friendship with Jesus Christ.

As the Lord of the universe, Christ provides abundant mercy and grace for all—enough to ensure the salvation of anyone who responds to His offer. He will not return and harvest the earth until all the people on earth have made up their minds and sealed their decisions. Those represented by the wheat will have confirmed their place in His kingdom through the lifelong, persistent choice of love-based surrender, letting Christ dwell in them and allowing His Spirit to transform them. Those represented by the tares will have hardened their hearts through an unrepentant, continued rejection of the Holy Spirit’s invitation to accept Jesus’ love.

For us, the call is to remain under the divine Sower’s care today and every day. Then, one day soon, “the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father” (v. 43). May we allow His work in our hearts to make us into good seeds.

Journal:

`Meditate on Matthew 13:24–30, 36–43 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What about Jesus makes you trust, love, and surrender gladly to Him?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`