---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   16/12/2017
---

Overcoming Evil With
Good
“Be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God” (Rom. 12:2).

sabbath
DECEMBER 16
Eph. 6:11
Introduction
Which Side?


It poses a challenge to Christians that, instead of pressing God to be on our side, our prayer should be to remain on God’s side at all costs. We live in a world in which we face many challenges. The world wants us to do things in a certain way. Our heavenly Father also wants us to follow His divine instructions.

In Ephesians 6:11, Paul urges Christians to “put on the whole armor of God” (NKJV) so they can stand strong against worldly powers. Like our earthly parents, God is our Father. If we are on the side of our parents, we will do everything they want us to do. In addition to loving them, we will appreciate them, have confidence in them, respect them, and follow their counsel.

The way we eat, the way we relate to people, the clothes we wear, and everything we do must draw from the template that God provides in His Word.
Guided by the Holy Spirit, Paul knew the challenges that Christians faced during his time. He echoed a similar message to the church in Rome when he wrote, “And do not be conformed to this world” (Rom. 12:2, NKJV).

These messages remain relevant to us in the twenty-first century. Satan is still the pioneer of darkness, the prince of the world. On the other hand, God remains a loving Father, ever willing and ready to save His children from the jaws of the enemy. He has demonstrated His love for humanity by offering Christ as the ultimate sacrifice for the sake of our salvation (John 3:16).

To be on God’s side, we must do our part. What this means is that we emulate Paul’s teaching and embrace the counsel of God—as it is revealed in His Word. The way we live our lives must conform to the teachings of the Bible. The way we eat, the way we relate to people, the clothes we wear, and everything we do must draw from the template that God provides in His Word. What this means is that we remain obedient to our Father in heaven.

This week, we learn about what we, as Christians, should do to remain obedient to God’s instructions. As we discuss the lesson, we shall learn various ways to improve our works, so our faith in God can be complete. This, in the end, will help us overcome evil with good.

Jackline Achieng’, Nairobi, Kenya

sunday
DECEMBER 17
Heb. 7:2
Evidence
The Evidence of Intercession


With the raging controversy between good and evil, God knows that Christians are exposed to sin while they still live in this world. However, He has provided all the tools necessary for Christians to overcome sin. It is written, “Where sin abounded, grace abounded much more” (Rom. 5:20, NKJV).

Therefore, we as Christians need not fear. Moreover, we have a Savior who is always interceding for us, so our salvation can be complete. The duty of intercession, which Christ carries out in heaven, is one of the tools that helps us overcome sin. When Adam and Eve sinned in the Garden of Eden, the gap between God and humanity widened. However, God, through His eternal love, gave us another opportunity to live.

Death has no power over Him that it may halt the intercession duty that Christ executes for us.
Christ now stands between God and us, asking God on our behalf to accept us back. Jesus Christ is both divine and human (John 1:14); even in that state, He committed no sin. Therefore, He qualifies as our High Priest to intercede for us at the heavenly throne (Heb. 8:1). Traditionally, the Jews depended on human priests as their intercessors. However, intercession by human priests was not enough to save humanity from the penalty of sin. For instance, the death of a priest could interrupt or even halt the intercession process.

To put things in order, God gave Christ to shed His blood as a sacrifice for the atonement of sins (Lev. 17:11). Unlike the Jewish priests, Christ offers a permanent evidence of intercession. Death has no power over Him that it may halt the intercession duty that Christ executes for us. With the ultimate power of salvation in His hands, Christ has the authority and power to secure us from eternal death.

What, then, must we do to claim our salvation? It is our duty as Christians to accept Christ as our Savior. When we allow Him to rule our lives, the Holy Spirit can have a chance to direct our lives and point us to the throne of God. Those who accept Christ today and those who accepted Him many years back are on the same level, because all our sins are forgiven.

REACT
Must we keep committing sin, just because we have Christ as our Intercessor?
What is the evidence that Christ intercedes for us on a daily basis?
Mark Gift, Nairobi, Kenya

monday
DECEMBER 18
Rom. 12:9–21; 13:7, 11–14;
1 Pet. 4:1
Logos
The Whole Duty of Man


Living for God (1 Pet. 4:1)
Amid the hotly debated issues of our time, such as politics, diet, modesty, and many more, there is the question of whether we stand out as living sacrifices for Christ. In a sinful world, it is difficult to fight sin and overcome it, because the pioneer of sin is all over the landscape. Christ experienced the same challenges when He was fighting for our salvation. He faced rejection, hostility, and numerous temptations to get into sin. However, Christ triumphed over sin (John 16:33).

There is a finish line and a prize to win.
Peter uses the example of Christ to call Christians to live for God. The issue that stands out in Peter’s message is the attitude of commitment. God wants us to have a level of commitment similar to that of Christ, when He endured all challenges to achieve victory over sin. Jesus echoes the same idea in Matthew 16:24: “ ‘If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me’ ” (NKJV).

As Christian young adults, we face many challenges. Many of us miss coursework assignments in college because they are set on a Sabbath day. Others have to miss college functions that fall on the Sabbath. These are just a couple of examples. However, in our quest for victory over sin, we must be ready to sacrifice anything and be willing to let go of anything that comes between God and us.

Love Is the Foundation (Rom. 12:9–21)
Christians in Paul’s time faced challenges that were similar to what Christians face today. There were political issues (Rom. 13:1–7), and more issues came up regarding how Christians should behave. In the end, each person is entitled to his or her opinion, but the guideline remains what God stipulates in the Bible.

The Bible is the Constitution for Christians, and what it says on the subject of love is the absolute Truth. When we lack love, we breed enmity and hatred. We begin to hate God and our fellow man. Enmity and hatred are products of sin. In the book of Romans, Paul urges Christians to express love to their fellow Christians and even to other people outside of their faith. In addition, Paul goes on to define the type of love that Christians should display.

“The professed love of Christians to each other should be sincere, free from deceit, and unmeaning and deceitful compliments. Depending on Divine grace, they must detest and dread all evil, and love and delight in whatever is kind and useful. We must not only do that which is good, but we must cleave to it. All our duty towards one another is summed up in one word, love.”1

With that kind of love, we can behave as parents toward our children, being tender, natural, and unforced. We can strive to do well, curse not, and share in the joys of others as we work our way to true holiness.

The Day Is Nearer, Our Salvation Is Here (Rom. 13:11–14)
The journey of salvation is like a race. There is a finish line and a prize to win. Races are not without distractions—especially long ones in which the competitors have to pass through various points before they reach the finish line. In the same way, we as Christians encounter things or people that take our attention away from the salvation journey. When we lose focus on the journey of salvation, it is as if we fall asleep.

Paul sensed the same danger among the early Christians. In Romans 13:11, he reminds them, “Wake up from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed” (NIV). As the days pass, the second coming of Christ draws nearer. The second coming of Christ is the finish line for our salvation race, and eternal life is the prize to win. If we want to reach the finish line and claim the prize, then we must remain obedient to God and His commandments.

The time to wake up and come out of spiritual deadness, carnal security, and negligence is now. We must replace every bad habit in our lives with the right practice. “When we are up and ready, we are not to sit still, but to appear abroad; let us walk. Christianity teaches us how to walk so as to please God, who ever sees us. Walk honestly as in the day; avoiding the works of darkness.”2

How Should We Relate to the State? (Rom. 13:7)
From the time of the prophets through the time of Christ and the apostles to our time, people in authority have existed. God knew that for Christians there would be people in authority where His children exist. The Bible gives a clear guideline on how Christians should live a righteous lifestyle, including how they should relate to people in authority. Paul calls his readers to action when it comes to their relationship with the state. “Give to everyone what you owe them” (Rom. 13:7, NIV).

REACT
What is your description of “living for God”?
How should we deal with corrupt leaders in authority?
What are some of the situations that distract us from the salvation race?
1. Matthew Henry’s Concise Commentary, “Commentary on Romans 12:9–16,” accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.christianity.com/bible/commentary.php?com=mhc&b=45&c=12.
2. Ibid., “Commentary on Romans 13:11–14,” accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.christianity.com/bible/commentary.php?com=mhc&b=45&c=13.
Seline Khavetsa, Nairobi, Kenya

tuesday
DECEMBER 19
Rom. 13:14
Testimony
Our Salvation Draws Nearer


Ellen G. White offers an important lesson regarding the state of the world: “I was shown the state of the world, that it is fast filling up its cup of iniquity. Violence and crime of every description are filling our world, and Satan is using every means to make crime and debasing vice popular. The youth who walk the streets are surrounded with handbills and notices of crime and sin, presented in some novel or to be acted at some theater. Their minds are educated into familiarity with sin. The course pursued by the base and vile is kept before them in the periodicals of the day, and everything which can excite curiosity and arouse the animal passions is brought before them in thrilling and exciting stories.

“Violence and crime of every description are filling our world.”
“The literature that proceeds from corrupted intellects poisons the minds of thousands in our world. Sin does not appear exceeding sinful. They hear and read so much of debasing crime and vileness that the once tender conscience which would have recoiled with horror becomes so blunted that it can dwell upon the low and vile sayings and actions of men with greedy interest.”1

However, in the midst of a glaring moral and social decadence that surrounds us, there is hope. “As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man. God will have a people zealous of good works, standing firm amid the pollutions of this degenerate age. There will be a people who hold so fast to the divine strength that they will be proof against every temptation. Evil communications in flaming handbills may seek to speak to their senses and corrupt their minds; yet they will be so united to God and angels that they will be as those who see not and hear not. They have a work to do which no one can do for them, which is to fight the good fight of faith, and lay hold on eternal life. They will not be self-confident and self-sufficient. Knowing their weakness, they will unite their ignorance to Christ’s wisdom, their weakness to His strength.”2

REACT
What resources does God provide to help us fight sin in a sinful world?
How should we prepare ourselves to overcome evil in the world, which is its home?
1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, pp. 471, 472.
2. Ibid., p. 472.
Patience Achieng’, Nairobi, Kenya

wednesday
DECEMBER 20
Rom. 12:3
How-to
Tips to Subdue Evil


One of the lessons that we can learn from Romans 12:3 is the virtue of humility among Christians. If we are convinced of our sins, we will be humble with contrite hearts. In the King James Version of the Bible, the word humility is mentioned seven times. The words humble and humbled are mentioned fifty-six and twenty-five times respectively. Humility brings out our true estimate as Christians in whatever position that God puts us. “Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up” (James 4:10, NIV).

In essence, pride obstructs spiritual and moral development.
Whether we are on the front lines or in the background, we should not indulge in self-exaltation or reputation. Instead, we should consider ourselves empty and invite Christ to fill the vacuum. God has endowed us with different talents and gifts to use in glorifying His name. When humble, we can recognize that God owns us and everything in our lives. When that happens, we shall acquire inner beauty and a gallant soul that cherishes spiritual progress. When we think highly of ourselves, humility leaves us, and we begin to see ourselves as on top of everything. In that situation, we may trample the rights of the weak and breach peace. We can be suspicious of one another and become unforgiving. In essence, pride obstructs spiritual and moral development. Therefore, how can we learn humility and think soberly? Try these ways:

Meditating on God’s promises. When we commune with Christ, His Presence will enter our hearts to direct us in knowledge, righteousness, and love. Meditating on God’s power and love eliminates jealousy, boastfulness, pride, self-assertiveness, and complacency.
Considering the social body. The social body refers to the community to which we belong. We all need one another to work effectively. No one person, no one class is ever fit enough to stand on its own.
Considering your gifts as given by God. We should recognize the gifts God has granted us. By doing that, we submit ourselves to a Power higher than we are, and this breeds humility. “Therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time” (1 Pet. 5:6, NKJV).
REACT
How does embracing the virtue of humility help us fight evil?
How can we remain humble before God as a church?
What are the fruits of humility?
Samuel Ochieng’, Homa Bay, Kenya

thursday
DECEMBER 21
Matt. 25:40​
Opinion
The Love Yardstick


According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), about 795 million people in the world were suffering from hunger between 2014 and 2016. 1 Most of the afflicted people live in developing regions, including: Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Countless others suffer from chronic and incurable diseases such as cancer and HIV/AIDS. Many more are displaced by civil unrest, terrorism, and natural disasters. These people need love and assistance with their basic needs to remind them that, regardless of the prevailing circumstances, they are still part of the human population.

It doesn’t matter where we are; it is possible for us to make a difference through love.
Christ talked extensively about genuine brotherly love in His teachings. I hope you do too. For instance, how many times do we see street children rummaging in the trash bins for food? Do we care to visit the hospitals and health centers in our communities to show compassion for the sick?

In little acts of kindness, we can show love to the suffering and lift the hopes of the hopeless. It doesn’t matter where we are; it is possible for us to make a difference through love. Love binds us as Christians. When we treat people around us with genuine brotherly love, it shows that the love of Christ is in us. Genuine love among Christians is a powerful way to fight sin among us. Love checks our behavior within the church and is reflected to those outside our faith.

If we could understand the principle of love and benevolence, then we could be stronger as individuals and as a church. If we neglect the church, we neglect Christ because He is the head of the church. Similarly, if we support the church and extend help to the needy and suffering in our community, we reflect what Christ Himself would do in the same situation.

We have a duty, as followers of Christ, to uphold the character of genuine love. Showing brotherly love to our brothers and sisters in the work of God is a big step toward overcoming evil with good.

REACT
What is the difference between genuine Christian love and worldly love?
What are some of the unspiritual things that love prohibits us from doing?
1. “2015 World Hunger and Poverty Facts and Statistics,” Hunger Notes, accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.worldhunger.org/2015-world-hunger-and-poverty-facts-and-statistics/.
Dorothy Awuor, Homa Bay, Kenya

friday
DECEMBER 22
Rom. 12:1
Exploration
Good to Go


CONCLUDE
In the Old Testament, God says “Worship me; not dumb idols. Also, please be kind to the poor.” He says He will punish those who break these rules.

When you work for an airline, you are compelled to wear the clothes and practice the courtesy that will represent your employers. You don’t dress up in a uniform to try to get hired. You wear the uniform because you got the job. The New Testament also calls us to loyalty to God and kindness to each other. Paul describes our obedience as a response to the gift of salvation and a way to represent our Lord and Savior.

CONSIDER
Thinking of an aspect of your Christian behavior that your secular friends probably find hardest to understand and then writing down an explanation that you hope might convince them to adopt the same behavior. If you’re brave, post it on social media.
Praying for an enemy. Is there something you can do for that enemy to “heap coals of fire on his or her head” as Paul suggests?
Reflecting on the best boss you’ve had. Take a minute to message them with a word of appreciation. Reflect on how Jesus is like a good boss. Do you honestly find His burdens light as expressed in Matthew 11:29? Why or why not?
Taking a spiritual gifts test to see how you can serve more effectively in your church and community.
Composing a graphic that promotes religious freedom and putting it on social media.
Planning an outdoor activity, such as a hike, with a church member that you don’t find particularly likable. Does spending time with them change your attitude?
Making a list of the people you consider to be your neighbors. Compose a song that includes all the names and that prays for God’s touch in their lives.
CONNECT
2 Kings 6:8–22; 1 Samuel 24.
Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Health and Healing, pp. 284–286.
Laura Hillenbrand, Unbroken (Random House, 2010).
C. S. Lewis, The Screwtape Letters.
Kim Peckham, Sharpsburg, Maryland, USA