---
title:  The Evidence of Intercession
date:   17/12/2017
---

**Evidence**: Heb. 7:2

With the raging controversy between good and evil, God knows that Christians are exposed to sin while they still live in this world. However, He has provided all the tools necessary for Christians to overcome sin. It is written, “Where sin abounded, grace abounded much more” (Rom. 5:20, NKJV).

Therefore, we as Christians need not fear. Moreover, we have a Savior who is always interceding for us, so our salvation can be complete. The duty of intercession, which Christ carries out in heaven, is one of the tools that helps us overcome sin. When Adam and Eve sinned in the Garden of Eden, the gap between God and humanity widened. However, God, through His eternal love, gave us another opportunity to live.

Christ now stands between God and us, asking God on our behalf to accept us back. Jesus Christ is both divine and human (John 1:14); even in that state, He committed no sin. Therefore, He qualifies as our High Priest to intercede for us at the heavenly throne (Heb. 8:1). Traditionally, the Jews depended on human priests as their intercessors. However, intercession by human priests was not enough to save humanity from the penalty of sin. For instance, the death of a priest could interrupt or even halt the intercession process.

To put things in order, God gave Christ to shed His blood as a sacrifice for the atonement of sins (Lev. 17:11). Unlike the Jewish priests, Christ offers a permanent evidence of intercession. Death has no power over Him that it may halt the intercession duty that Christ executes for us. With the ultimate power of salvation in His hands, Christ has the authority and power to secure us from eternal death.

What, then, must we do to claim our salvation? It is our duty as Christians to accept Christ as our Savior. When we allow Him to rule our lives, the Holy Spirit can have a chance to direct our lives and point us to the throne of God. Those who accept Christ today and those who accepted Him many years back are on the same level, because all our sins are forgiven.

**React**

`Must we keep committing sin, just because we have Christ as our Intercessor?`

`What is the evidence that Christ intercedes for us on a daily basis?`

_Mark Gift, Nairobi, Kenya_