---
title:  The Whole Duty of Man
date:   18/12/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 12:9–21; 13:7, 11–14; 1 Pet. 4:1

**Living for God** (1 Pet. 4:1)

Amid the hotly debated issues of our time, such as politics, diet, modesty, and many more, there is the question of whether we stand out as living sacrifices for Christ. In a sinful world, it is difficult to fight sin and overcome it, because the pioneer of sin is all over the landscape. Christ experienced the same challenges when He was fighting for our salvation. He faced rejection, hostility, and numerous temptations to get into sin. However, Christ triumphed over sin (John 16:33).

Peter uses the example of Christ to call Christians to live for God. The issue that stands out in Peter’s message is the attitude of commitment. God wants us to have a level of commitment similar to that of Christ, when He endured all challenges to achieve victory over sin. Jesus echoes the same idea in Matthew 16:24: “ ‘If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me’ ” (NKJV).

As Christian young adults, we face many challenges. Many of us miss coursework assignments in college because they are set on a Sabbath day. Others have to miss college functions that fall on the Sabbath. These are just a couple of examples. However, in our quest for victory over sin, we must be ready to sacrifice anything and be willing to let go of anything that comes between God and us.

**Love Is the Foundation** (Rom. 12:9–21)

Christians in Paul’s time faced challenges that were similar to what Christians face today. There were political issues (Rom. 13:1–7), and more issues came up regarding how Christians should behave. In the end, each person is entitled to his or her opinion, but the guideline remains what God stipulates in the Bible.

The Bible is the Constitution for Christians, and what it says on the subject of love is the absolute Truth. When we lack love, we breed enmity and hatred. We begin to hate God and our fellow man. Enmity and hatred are products of sin. In the book of Romans, Paul urges Christians to express love to their fellow Christians and even to other people outside of their faith. In addition, Paul goes on to define the type of love that Christians should display.

“The professed love of Christians to each other should be sincere, free from deceit, and unmeaning and deceitful compliments. Depending on Divine grace, they must detest and dread all evil, and love and delight in whatever is kind and useful. We must not only do that which is good, but we must cleave to it. All our duty towards one another is summed up in one word, love.”<sup>1</sup>

With that kind of love, we can behave as parents toward our children, being tender, natural, and unforced. We can strive to do well, curse not, and share in the joys of others as we work our way to true holiness.

**The Day Is Nearer, Our Salvation Is Here** (Rom. 13:11–14)

The journey of salvation is like a race. There is a finish line and a prize to win. Races are not without distractions—especially long ones in which the competitors have to pass through various points before they reach the finish line. In the same way, we as Christians encounter things or people that take our attention away from the salvation journey. When we lose focus on the journey of salvation, it is as if we fall asleep.

Paul sensed the same danger among the early Christians. In Romans 13:11, he reminds them, “Wake up from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed” (NIV). As the days pass, the second coming of Christ draws nearer. The second coming of Christ is the finish line for our salvation race, and eternal life is the prize to win. If we want to reach the finish line and claim the prize, then we must remain obedient to God and His commandments.

The time to wake up and come out of spiritual deadness, carnal security, and negligence is now. We must replace every bad habit in our lives with the right practice. “When we are up and ready, we are not to sit still, but to appear abroad; let us walk. Christianity teaches us how to walk so as to please God, who ever sees us. Walk honestly as in the day; avoiding the works of darkness.”<sup>2</sup>

**How Should We Relate to the State?** (Rom. 13:7)

From the time of the prophets through the time of Christ and the apostles to our time, people in authority have existed. God knew that for Christians there would be people in authority where His children exist. The Bible gives a clear guideline on how Christians should live a righteous lifestyle, including how they should relate to people in authority. Paul calls his readers to action when it comes to their relationship with the state. “Give to everyone what you owe them” (Rom. 13:7, NIV).

**React**

`What is your description of “living for God”?`

`How should we deal with corrupt leaders in authority?`

`What are some of the situations that distract us from the salvation race?`

<sup>1. Matthew Henry’s Concise Commentary, “Commentary on Romans 12:9–16,” accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.christianity.com/bible/commentary.php?com=mhc&b=45&c=12.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., “Commentary on Romans 13:11–14,” accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.christianity.com/bible/commentary.php?com=mhc&b=45&c=13.</sup>

_Seline Khavetsa, Nairobi, Kenya_