---
title:  Our Salvation Draws Nearer
date:   19/12/2017
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 13:14

Ellen G. White offers an important lesson regarding the state of the world: “I was shown the state of the world, that it is fast filling up its cup of iniquity. Violence and crime of every description are filling our world, and Satan is using every means to make crime and debasing vice popular. The youth who walk the streets are surrounded with handbills and notices of crime and sin, presented in some novel or to be acted at some theater. Their minds are educated into familiarity with sin. The course pursued by the base and vile is kept before them in the periodicals of the day, and everything which can excite curiosity and arouse the animal passions is brought before them in thrilling and exciting stories.

“The literature that proceeds from corrupted intellects poisons the minds of thousands in our world. Sin does not appear exceeding sinful. They hear and read so much of debasing crime and vileness that the once tender conscience which would have recoiled with horror becomes so blunted that it can dwell upon the low and vile sayings and actions of men with greedy interest.”1

However, in the midst of a glaring moral and social decadence that surrounds us, there is hope. “As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man. God will have a people zealous of good works, standing firm amid the pollutions of this degenerate age. There will be a people who hold so fast to the divine strength that they will be proof against every temptation. Evil communications in flaming handbills may seek to speak to their senses and corrupt their minds; yet they will be so united to God and angels that they will be as those who see not and hear not. They have a work to do which no one can do for them, which is to fight the good fight of faith, and lay hold on eternal life. They will not be self-confident and self-sufficient. Knowing their weakness, they will unite their ignorance to Christ’s wisdom, their weakness to His strength.”2

**React**

`What resources does God provide to help us fight sin in a sinful world?`

`How should we prepare ourselves to overcome evil in the world, which is its home?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, pp. 471, 472.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., p. 472.</sup>

_Patience Achieng’, Nairobi, Kenya_