---
title:  Tips to Subdue Evil
date:   20/12/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 12:3

One of the lessons that we can learn from Romans 12:3 is the virtue of humility among Christians. If we are convinced of our sins, we will be humble with contrite hearts. In the King James Version of the Bible, the word humility is mentioned seven times. The words humble and humbled are mentioned fifty-six and twenty-five times respectively. Humility brings out our true estimate as Christians in whatever position that God puts us. “Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up” (James 4:10, NIV).


Whether we are on the front lines or in the background, we should not indulge in self-exaltation or reputation. Instead, we should consider ourselves empty and invite Christ to fill the vacuum. God has endowed us with different talents and gifts to use in glorifying His name. When humble, we can recognize that God owns us and everything in our lives. When that happens, we shall acquire inner beauty and a gallant soul that cherishes spiritual progress. When we think highly of ourselves, humility leaves us, and we begin to see ourselves as on top of everything. In that situation, we may trample the rights of the weak and breach peace. We can be suspicious of one another and become unforgiving. In essence, pride obstructs spiritual and moral development. Therefore, how can we learn humility and think soberly? Try these ways:

Meditating on God’s promises. When we commune with Christ, His Presence will enter our hearts to direct us in knowledge, righteousness, and love. Meditating on God’s power and love eliminates jealousy, boastfulness, pride, self-assertiveness, and complacency.

Considering the social body. The social body refers to the community to which we belong. We all need one another to work effectively. No one person, no one class is ever fit enough to stand on its own.

Considering your gifts as given by God. We should recognize the gifts God has granted us. By doing that, we submit ourselves to a Power higher than we are, and this breeds humility. “Therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time” (1 Pet. 5:6, NKJV).

**React**

`How does embracing the virtue of humility help us fight evil?`

`How can we remain humble before God as a church?`

`What are the fruits of humility?`

_Samuel Ochieng’, Homa Bay, Kenya_