---
title:  The Love Yardstick
date:   21/12/2017
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 25:40​

According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), about 795 million people in the world were suffering from hunger between 2014 and 2016. <sup>1</sup> Most of the afflicted people live in developing regions, including: Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Countless others suffer from chronic and incurable diseases such as cancer and HIV/AIDS. Many more are displaced by civil unrest, terrorism, and natural disasters. These people need love and assistance with their basic needs to remind them that, regardless of the prevailing circumstances, they are still part of the human population.

Christ talked extensively about genuine brotherly love in His teachings. I hope you do too. For instance, how many times do we see street children rummaging in the trash bins for food? Do we care to visit the hospitals and health centers in our communities to show compassion for the sick?

In little acts of kindness, we can show love to the suffering and lift the hopes of the hopeless. It doesn’t matter where we are; it is possible for us to make a difference through love. Love binds us as Christians. When we treat people around us with genuine brotherly love, it shows that the love of Christ is in us. Genuine love among Christians is a powerful way to fight sin among us. Love checks our behavior within the church and is reflected to those outside our faith.

If we could understand the principle of love and benevolence, then we could be stronger as individuals and as a church. If we neglect the church, we neglect Christ because He is the head of the church. Similarly, if we support the church and extend help to the needy and suffering in our community, we reflect what Christ Himself would do in the same situation.

We have a duty, as followers of Christ, to uphold the character of genuine love. Showing brotherly love to our brothers and sisters in the work of God is a big step toward overcoming evil with good.

**React**

`What is the difference between genuine Christian love and worldly love?`

`What are some of the unspiritual things that love prohibits us from doing?`

<sup>1. “2015 World Hunger and Poverty Facts and Statistics,” Hunger Notes, accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.worldhunger.org/2015-world-hunger-and-poverty-facts-and-statistics/.</sup>

_Dorothy Awuor, Homa Bay, Kenya_