---
title:  Good to Go
date:   22/12/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 12:1

**Conclude**

In the Old Testament, God says “Worship me; not dumb idols. Also, please be kind to the poor.” He says He will punish those who break these rules.

When you work for an airline, you are compelled to wear the clothes and practice the courtesy that will represent your employers. You don’t dress up in a uniform to try to get hired. You wear the uniform because you got the job. The New Testament also calls us to loyalty to God and kindness to each other. Paul describes our obedience as a response to the gift of salvation and a way to represent our Lord and Savior.

**Consider**

- Thinking of an aspect of your Christian behavior that your secular friends probably find hardest to understand and then writing down an explanation that you hope might convince them to adopt the same behavior. If you’re brave, post it on social media.
- Praying for an enemy. Is there something you can do for that enemy to “heap coals of fire on his or her head” as Paul suggests?
- Reflecting on the best boss you’ve had. Take a minute to message them with a word of appreciation. Reflect on how Jesus is like a good boss. Do you honestly find His burdens light as expressed in Matthew 11:29? Why or why not?
- Taking a spiritual gifts test to see how you can serve more effectively in your church and community.
- Composing a graphic that promotes religious freedom and putting it on social media.
- Planning an outdoor activity, such as a hike, with a church member that you don’t find particularly likable. Does spending time with them change your attitude?
- Making a list of the people you consider to be your neighbors. Compose a song that includes all the names and that prays for God’s touch in their lives.

**Connect**

1. 2 Kings 6:8–22; 1 Samuel 24.
2. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Health and Healing, pp. 284–286.
3. Laura Hillenbrand, Unbroken (Random House, 2010).
4. C. S. Lewis, The Screwtape Letters.

_Kim Peckham, Sharpsburg, Maryland, USA_