---
title:  The Secret to Our Success in Joining as One in Jesus
date:   20/10/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 1:3–14; Ephesians 2:11–22; Ephesians 4:1–3; Ephesians 5:15–21.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ He [God] let us know his secret plan. This was what God wanted, and he planned to do it through [by] Christ. God’s goal [what God wanted to do] was to finish his plan when the right time came. He planned that all things in heaven and on earth be joined together with Christ as the head” (Ephesians 1:9, 10, ERV). 

Ephesus was an important city for buying and selling things in Asia Minor. Asia Minor is part of modern Turkey today. The church in Ephesus had Jewish and non-Jewish members. Church members came from different social groups. Did the Ephesian church have a lot of problems because it was made of many different groups of people? Not at all. The members understood they were all part of one “body”—Jesus. Jesus joined them together in unity. Unity is agreement. 

For Paul, the meaning of unity had two parts. First, Paul believed in unity in the church. The church joined Jews and non-Jews in one body: Jesus. Second, Paul believed in unity in heaven and earth. Jesus is the reason for the unity that both heaven and earth experience. 

Paul uses the words “in Christ” or “with Christ” many times in his letters to show us everything that God did to join heaven and earth in agreement and what He plans to do. God plans to bring all things in heaven and on earth into agreement again. This unity will happen only after Jesus comes back. 