---
title:  God gives us special gifts
date:   21/10/2018
---

`In Ephesians 1:3–14, Paul lists many special gifts that God gives us because of Jesus. What gifts are they?`

Jesus’ followers have many reasons to thank God. Because of Jesus, God gives us many gifts. One of those gifts is adoption. God adopts us as His children. Paul uses the idea of our adoption into God’s family as a word picture to help explain unity. You will remember that unity is agreement. It means that Jesus makes church members the same in heart, mind, and belief. God adopted us as His children because of Jesus. Now we belong to God’s family. The word picture of the family also helps us remember God’s Special Agreement with Israel.

In his letter to the Ephesian church, Paul also talks about non-Jews who accept Jesus as the Messiah. The Messiah is the Savior that God chose to save His people from sin. Non-Jews who accept Jesus as the Messiah are God’s children. That means that the promises God gave Israel in His Special Agreement belong to the non-Jews too (Romans 8:17; Galatians 4:7). When we understand that the non-Jews are a part of God’s Special Agreement, then we will understand more about unity or agreement. Paul’s words in Ephesians 1:3–14 show us that God already planned for all humans to join as one in Jesus. As part of God’s family, we are not better than other people because we know Jesus. No. God loves each one of us the same. 

Now, let us be clear about Ephesians 1:3–14. This verse can be confusing to some people. Do you see where Paul says, “God chose us to belong to Christ before the world [earth] was created [made]” (Ephesians 1:4, NIrV)? This verse is a promise. God promised to save us before He made the earth. Does this verse also say that God chose some to be saved and some to be lost? No, the Bible does not teach that! In this verse, Paul says that God made a plan to save us before He made the earth. God made that plan because He wanted everyone to have the same chance to be saved (John 3:16; read also 1 Timothy 2:6; 2 Peter 3:9). God knows ahead of time who will accept His gift of being saved. But God’s knowing our answer is not the same thing as His deciding ahead of time who will be saved and who will be lost. God offers to save everyone because Jesus died for us. The question is: What will we say to God’s offer? God does not force anyone to accept His gift.