---
title:  Jesus’ death broke the “wall”
date:   22/10/2018
---

Race and religion can cause some of the biggest separations between people. In many countries, people must carry special cards known as identity (ID) cards. These ID cards show basic personal information. The cards may tell you the race group or religion a person belongs to. Often, people who belong to a small religion or race group with no power cannot own or do some of the things that other people can own or do. When wars start, people in power can use the information on these ID cards to hurt people because they do not belong to the accepted religion or race groups.

`In Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul tells us about the best behavior for the Christian community. What behavior is that? How does our being joined together in agreement in Jesus help us solve our differences? Jesus’ death on the cross “broke” something. What did His death destroy?`

Paul asks the Ephesians to remember that their lives were awful before God gave them His grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. In the past, differences in religion and race caused disagreement and wars between people. But the good news for us is that Jesus joins us together as one people (Ephesians 2:13).

In Paul’s day, there is a big space outside the temple in Jerusalem. This space is named the temple court. The temple court is divided into smaller spaces, also named courts, for Jews and non-Jews. The court for Jews is closer to the temple building. This court is separated from the court for non-Jews by a wall. The wall has a sign with words that warn foreigners not to go in. If they do enter, they shall die. The Jews in Jerusalem blame Paul for breaking this rule. The Jews blame Paul for bringing a non-Jew into the Jewish part of the temple. This non-Jew is a man named Trophimus from Ephesus (Acts 21:29). So, Paul is arrested. But in Paul’s letter to the Ephesians, Paul says, “Christ [Jesus] made both Jews and non-Jews one people. They were separated as if there were a wall between them. But Christ broke down that wall of hate by giving his own body” (Ephesians 2:14, ICB). Because of Jesus, we are also Abraham’s sons and daughters who can serve God. 

`How have Paul’s words in Ephesians 2:11–22 come true in our church? What more must we do to make them come true?`