---
title:  Agreement in the church
date:   23/10/2018
---

Paul gives the Ephesians examples about how they can use his advice in their lives every day. Paul’s advice about how	to have agreement in the church is not simply a fake story or idea. No, the agreement is very real for the church among all Jews, non-Jews, and people of different colors and ways of life. But if we want to have agreement in the church, then Paul says we must “live the way God’s people should live, because he [God] chose you to be his” (Ephesians 4:1, ERV).

`In Ephesians 4:1–3, Paul talks about how we as Christians should behave because God chose us to be His children. How does Paul say we should behave?`

Paul tells us that we should be kind and gentle. We should be loving and not have pride. Then we will have peace. “The Holy Spirit makes you one in every way. So try your best to remain [stay] as one [in agreement]. Let peace keep you together” (Ephesians 4:3, NIrV). Love helps peace to grow in the church and outside it. When we are at peace with each other, then we show other people God’s love in special ways. God asks the church to be His witness. He wants the church to be a witness for Him, even in the worst of times.

`Paul talks about an important idea in Ephesians 4:4–6. What idea does Paul talk about?`

In the first verses of Ephesians 4, Paul talks about how much he wants church members to be in agreement. Paul begs the Ephesians to show unity (Ephesians 4:1–3). Remember, unity is agreement. It means church members are joined together in one mind, heart, and belief in Jesus. Then Paul makes a list of the seven things that join believers as one in Jesus (Ephesians 4:4–6). Paul tells us that unity, or agreement, is something that believers already have (Ephesians 4:4–6). At the same time, believers must work all the time to make sure they keep their unity strong (Ephesians 4:1–3). Believers also need to think of ways to have more unity in the future (Ephesians 4:13). 

`God chose us to be His people. What choices can we make now to “live the way God’s people should live”?`