---
title:  Church leaders and agreement
date:   24/10/2018
---

“But each one of us has received a gift of grace [loving-favor]. These gifts are given to us by Christ” (Ephesians 4:7, NIrV). Yes, God gives the gift of being saved to anyone who will accept it. But there are special spiritual gifts that God gives to some of His servants so that they can do important work for Him. 

`In Ephesians 4:11, Paul talks about the gifts of leadership that God gives to the church. What are these different gifts named?`

`In Ephesians 4:12, Paul tells us why God gives these gifts of leadership to the church. Why does God give leadership gifts to the church?` 

All Christians, in some ways, are pastors and God’s servants who share the Good News about Jesus. Jesus’ Important Command in Matthew 28: 19, 20 is not only for church leaders. Jesus gave His Important Command to all Christians. He told believers to go and make new followers from all the people on the earth. He told His followers to baptize people and to teach. God does not give work only to pastors to do. God gives special work to every Christian. God wants all of us to help share the Good News. No church leader can say that he or she is the only worker God gave work to. God gave the spiritual gifts of leadership to the church for very important reasons. God wanted these gifts to improve the church and give the church knowledge about right and wrong. Church leaders must use these gifts to help peace and agreement to grow in the church.

Paul’s list of leadership gifts tells us that God gave the church these gifts to help believers find people who do not know Jesus. God chooses some people in the church to help other members do their work for God, to serve Jesus, and to teach and lift up the “body” of Jesus, or His church (Ephesians 4:12). Jesus gave us a perfect example of leadership. His example must guide us in the work we do for God. Jesus came to serve other people (Matthew 20:25–28). We must do the same thing Jesus did. We must work together with other believers to do God’s work.

`What are your spiritual gifts? How are you using your gifts to bring peace to your local church?`