---
title:  Connections between christians
date:   25/10/2018
---

Christianity is more than ideas and teachings. Christianity is about how we become friends with other people and with God. Our connection to God changes the connections we have with other people. The ideas about agreement and peace that Paul talks about in his letter to the Ephesians can help us become better friends with other people and each other.

`Read Ephesians 5:15–21. What does Paul tell us to do in verse 21? How is “serv[ing] each other” (ERV) connected with our having peace?` 

Paul tells believers to serve one another. Paul connects this command in verse 21 with the command for Christians to “be filled with the Holy Spirit” (Ephesians 5:18, NIrV). How do we show that we are filled with the Holy Spirit? We show that we are filled with the Spirit when we serve and listen to each other. God wants us to love and serve people. Of course, we cannot feel this way about people on our own. We need the Holy Spirit’s help. When we serve other people, we show them that the Holy Spirit lives in our hearts. He gives us the power to serve other people. The Holy Spirit helps connect us to other people in agreement. When we serve people, we also show them how much we love Jesus for dying for our sins.

`In Ephesians 5:22–6:9, Paul talks about the power we have to change the lives of the people we serve at home and work. What power do we have to make their lives better?`

It is true that agreement in the church depends on the agreement found in the home. Paul said that the agreement, love, and respect between a husband and wife will show people Jesus’ love for the church. Jesus gave up everything to save us because He loved us. So, we need to show Jesus’ love and respect to everyone in our homes and in our churches. We need to show Jesus’ love in our connections with our children and with our bosses and everyone at work. The peace we enjoy at home needs to fill our church life. 

`What important rules did you learn from the verses we studied today? How can they help you love and serve people better in your family and at work?`