---
title:  Additional thought
date:   26/10/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Spirit of Unity [peace and agreement],” pages 179–188, in Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 9.

“Jesus did not favor any person because of his or her race group, power, or belief. But Israel’s holy leaders wanted every good thing they could get from God only for themselves and for their country. They wanted all the gifts of heaven for themselves. They did not want God to give these gifts to other people on the earth. But Jesus came to break every wall. He came to show us that His gift of mercy and love were the same as the air, the light, or the rain. They are for everyone.

“Jesus started a religion that was the same as the life He lived. He started a religion with no social groups that have more power than other groups. He started a religion that connected Jews to non-Jews and free persons to slaves. Jesus made them all brothers. He made them equal in God’s eyes. Jesus did not do anything to get money or power. Everyone was the same in God’s view: neighbors and strangers, friends and enemies alike. What did Jesus want more than anything and with all His heart? He wanted and loved the person who ‘thirsted’ for the waters of life.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 9, pages 190, 191, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	What do you see in Ephesians 4 that shows us the peace and agreement in the church that God wants us to have? What can we do to make sure that we have this peace and agreement?`

`2.	If we want to have peace and agreement in the church, then we must be willing to serve other people. Without this spirit of love, there can be no peace or agreement in the church. If we are proud, if we think we are always right, if we are unwilling to listen to others, then we have no chance for peace and agreement. How can we learn to be willing to serve other people?`

`3.	How can we have peace and agreement in the church, even when we do not always agree with each other on everything?`