---
title:  Where Is the Storehouse?
date:  16/01/2023
---

`Read Malachi 3:10. What can we learn from this verse about where our tithe should go?`

Though specific directions are not given in the text, it is nevertheless evident that God’s people knew what He meant by the word “storehouse.” God does include in His directions, “ ‘that there may be food in My house’ ” (NKJV). His people understood that God’s house initially was the sanctuary—the elaborate tent that was built by specific direction given to Moses at Mount Sinai. Later when Israel lived in the Promised Land, the central location was first in Shiloh and then more permanently at the temple in Jerusalem.

`Read Deuteronomy 12:5–14. These verses do not indicate that God’s children could use their own discretion as to where their tithe was deposited. What principles can we take from these verses for ourselves today?`

As members of God’s family, we want to understand and practice His will regarding what to do with our tithe. In the biblical narrative, we learn that three times each year—Passover, Pentecost, and Feast of Tabernacles (Exod. 23:14–17)—God’s people were to travel to Jerusalem to bring their tithes and offerings personally and to praise and to worship God. Then the Levites distributed the tithe to their brethren all over the land of Israel (see 2 Chron. 31:11–21, Neh. 12:44–47, Neh. 13:8–14). In harmony with this biblical central storehouse principle, the Seventh-day Adventist Church has designated the local conferences, missions, and unions of churches as storehouses on behalf of the world church and from which the ministry is paid.

For the convenience of church members, tithes and offerings are brought to the local church as part of the worship experience, though some use online giving. The local treasurers then forward the tithe to the conference storehouse. This system of tithe management, outlined and ordained by God, has enabled the Seventh-day Adventist Church to have a worldwide and growing impact in the world.

`Imagine if everyone decided to give their tithe to whomever they wanted to, at the expense of the Adventist Church itself. What would happen to our church? Why is that practice, then, such a bad idea and contrary to Scripture?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Instruction has been given me that there is a withholding of the tithe that should be faithfully brought into the Lord’s treasury for the support of ministers and missionaries who are opening the Scriptures to the people and working from house to house. The work of evangelizing the world has been greatly hindered by personal selfishness. Some, even among professing Christians, are unable to see that the work of the gospel is to be supported by the means that Christ has given them. Money is needed in order that the work done all over the world may be carried forward. Thousands upon thousands are perishing in sin, and a lack of means is hindering the proclamation of the truth that is to be carried to all nations and kindreds and tongues and people. There are men ready to go forth as the Lord’s messengers, but because of a lack of means in the treasury they cannot be sent to the places where the people are begging for someone to come and teach them the truth.<br/>
There are many in our world who are longing to hear the word of life. But how can they hear without a preacher? And how can those sent to teach them live without support? God would have the lives of His workers carefully sustained. They are His property, and He is dishonored when they are compelled to labor in a way that injures their health. He is dishonored, also, when for lack of means workers cannot be sent to destitute fields.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 52.

[W]hen men disregard the claims of God, plainly set before them, the Lord permits them to follow their own way, and reap the fruit of their doings. Whoever appropriates to his own use the portion that God has reserved, is proving himself an unfaithful steward. He will lose not only that which he has withheld from God, but also that which was committed to him as his own.—“A Test of Gratitude and Loyalty,” Review and Herald, February 4, 1902.

This matter of giving is not left to impulse. God has given us definite instruction in regard to it. He has specified tithes and offerings as the measure of our obligation. And He desires us to give regularly and systematically. . . . Let each regularly examine his income, which is all a blessing from God, and set apart the tithe as a separate fund, to be sacredly the Lord’s. This fund should not in any case be devoted to any other use; it is to be devoted solely to support the ministry of the gospel. After the tithe is set apart, let gifts and offerings be apportioned, “as God hath prospered” you. . . .<br/>
This message has lost none of its force. It is just as fresh in its importance as God’s gifts are fresh and continual. There is no difficulty in understanding our duty in the light of this message, given through God’s holy prophet. We are not left to stumble along in darkness and disobedience. The truth is plainly stated, and it can be clearly understood by all who wish to be honest in the sight of God. A tithe of all our income is the Lord’s. He lays His hand upon that portion which He has specified that we shall return to Him, and says, I allow you to use My bounties after you have laid aside the tenth, and have come before Me with gifts and offerings.—Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 80, 82.