---
title:  Tithing on the Gross or the Net Income?
date:  18/01/2023
---

We calculate our tithe on our “income” if we are paid by the hour or by a salary, and we pay on our “increase” or profit if we are self-employed and have our own business. In many countries, the government takes out taxes from the worker’s pay to cover the cost of services done for the people, such as security, roads and bridges, unemployment benefits, and so on. The question of gross or net primarily involves whether we return tithe on our income before or after such taxes are taken out. Those who are self-employed can legitimately deduct the cost of doing business in order to determine their actual profit before their personal taxes are deducted.

Studies of membership’s giving habits reveal that the majority of Seventh-day Adventists tithe on the gross income; that is, before taxes are taken out.  In fact, according to the Tithing Principles and Guidelines, published by the General Conference in 1990, “Tithe should be computed on the gross amount of a wage or salary earner's income before legally required or other employee authorized deductions. This includes federal and state income taxes which provide for services and other benefits of responsible citizenship. Contributions to Social Security may be subtracted-See Guideline 111-F.”—Page 22.

`Read 1 Kings 17:9–16. What was the widow’s situation before Elijah came to her? What did the prophet ask her to do first before taking care of herself and her son? What can we learn from this account about the question at hand?`

The widow of Zarephath was told by God that a man of God was coming to see her (1 Kings 17:9). When Elijah arrived, she explained her dire circumstances. Elijah first asked for a drink of water and then added, “Do not fear; go and do as you have said, but make me a small cake from it first, and bring it to me; and afterward make some for yourself and your son. For thus says the Lord God of Israel: ‘The bin of flour shall not be used up, nor shall the jar of oil run dry, until the day the Lord sends rain on the earth’ ” (1 Kings 17:13, 14, NKJV).

Was this selfishness on his part, or was he simply testing her faith—in fact, allowing her to exercise her faith? The answer should be obvious.

As we have been told, “Everyone is to be his own assessor and is left to give as he purposes in his heart.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 469.

`How do you explain to someone who has never given tithe the blessings that come from giving it? What are those blessings, and how does returning tithe strengthen your faith?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Faith is trusting God—believing that He loves us and knows best what is for our good. Thus, instead of our own, it leads us to choose His way. . . .<br/>
How to exercise faith should be made very plain. To every promise of God there are conditions. If we are willing to do His will, all His strength is ours. Whatever gift He promises, is in the promise itself. “The seed is the word of God.” Luke 8:11. As surely as the oak is in the acorn, so surely is the gift of God in His promise. If we receive the promise, we have the gift.—Education, p. 253.

“He giveth to all life, and breath, and all things.” Acts 17:25. The Lord declares, “Every beast of the forest is Mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills.” Psalm 50:10. “The silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine.” Haggai 2:8. And it is God who gives men power to get wealth. Deuteronomy 8:18. As an acknowledgment that all things came from Him, the Lord directed that a portion of His bounty should be returned to Him in gifts and offerings to sustain His worship.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 525.

In the days of Elijah, Israel had departed from God. They clung to their sins, and rejected the warnings of the Spirit through the Lord’s messengers. Thus they cut themselves off from the channel by which God’s blessing could come to them. The Lord passed by the homes of Israel, and found a refuge for His servant in a heathen land, with a woman who did not belong to the chosen people. But this woman was favored because she had followed the light she had received, and her heart was open to the greater light that God sent her through His prophet.—The Desire of Ages, p. 238.

Wonderful was the hospitality shown to God’s prophet by this Phoenician woman, and wonderfully were her faith and generosity rewarded. “She, and he, and her house, did eat many days. And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which He spake by Elijah. And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. . . . And [Elijah] said unto her, Give me thy son. . . . and [he] cried unto the Lord. . . . And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived. And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother: and Elijah said, See, thy son liveth. And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in thy mouth is truth.” Verses 15-24. . . .<br/>
“He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet’s reward.” Matthew 10:41.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, p. 346.