---
title:  An Honest or Faithful Tithe
date:  19/01/2023
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2. As children of God and stewards of His blessings, what kind of people are we asked to be?`

So, what does it mean to be faithful with our tithe? This week we have reviewed several of the constituent elements of the tithe:

1. The amount—which is a tenth, or 10 percent, of our income or increase.

2. Taken to the storehouse—the place from which the gospel ministers are paid.

3. Honoring God with the first part of our income.

4. Used for the right purpose—the support of the ministry.

It is our responsibility as church members to uphold the first three items; it is the responsibility of the storehouse managers to make sure that the tithe funds are used properly.

And, unlike our offerings, the tithe is not discretionary on our part. The tenth and the storehouse are both part of our responsibility. We don’t set the parameters; God does. If I don’t return a full 10 percent of my “increase,” I’m not really tithing; and if I don’t bring that 10 percent to the “storehouse,” I’m not really tithing either.

`Read Matthew 25:19–21. When are we called upon to give an account of our management of God’s funds? What is said to those who have been financially faithful?`

“ ‘Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse’ (Malachi 3:10), is God’s command. No appeal is made to gratitude or to generosity. This is a matter of simple honesty. The tithe is the Lord’s; and He bids us return to Him that which is His own.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 138. Managing for God is a unique privilege—and a responsibility, as well. He blesses and sustains us and asks for only a tenth, and then He uses His tithe to provide for those in the ministry, as He did for the tribe of Levi during the time of ancient Israel.

`Some argue that they don’t like how their tithe money is used and, hence, either don’t tithe or send their money somewhere else. Yet, where did God say, “Bring the tithe to the storehouse, but only if you are sure that the storehouse is using it right”?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is not God’s purpose that Christians, whose privileges far exceed those of the Jewish nation, shall give less freely than they gave. “Unto whomsoever much is given,” the Saviour declared, “of him shall be much required.” Luke 12:48. The liberality required of the Hebrews was largely to benefit their own nation; today the work of God extends over all the earth. In the hands of His followers, Christ has placed the treasures of the gospel, and upon them He has laid the responsibility of giving the glad tidings of salvation to the world. Surely our obligations are much greater than were those of ancient Israel.—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 337.

[E]very blessing bestowed upon us [calls] for a response to the Author of all our mercies. The Christian should often review his past life and recall with gratitude the precious deliverances that God has wrought for him, supporting him in trial, opening ways before him when all seemed dark and forbidding, refreshing him when ready to faint. He should recognize all of them as evidences of the watchcare of heavenly angels. In view of these innumerable blessings he should often ask, with subdued and grateful heart, “What shall I render unto the Lord for all His benefits toward me?” Psalm 116:12.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 187.

Let every steward understand that as he strives to advance the glory of God in our world, whether he stands before infidels or princes, he is to make God first and last and best in everything. The true Christian will realize that he has a right to his name only as he uplifts Christ with a steady, persevering, and ever-increasing force.<br/>
“It is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful” (1 Corinthians 4:2). When we are faithful in making God known, our impulses will be under divine supervision, and we shall make steady growth, spiritually and intellectually. But when men enter into a confederacy to exalt men, and have little to say of God, they are weakness itself. God will leave those who do not recognize Him in every effort made to uplift humanity. It is Christ’s power alone that can restore broken-down human machinery. Everywhere and in every place let those around you see that you give God the glory. Let man be put in the shade, let God appear as the only hope of the human race. Every man must rivet his building to the eternal Rock, Christ Jesus; then it will stand amid storm and tempest.—The Upward Look, p. 81.

God prepares the mind to recognize Him who alone can help the striving, struggling soul. He will educate all who stand under His banner to be faithful stewards of His grace. Man cannot show greater weakness than by thinking he will find more acceptance in the sight of men if he leaves God out of his assemblies. God must stand the highest. The wisdom of the greatest man is foolishness with Him.<br/>
God has given to man immortal principles, to which every human power must one day bow. We have truth that has been given us in trust. The precious beams of this light are not to be hid under a bushel, but are to give light to all that are in the house.— “Give Unto the Lord the Glory Due Unto His Name,” Manuscript 21, March 8, 1899.