---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/01/2023
---

Read Ellen G. White’s most comprehensive tithe document in volume 9 of Testimonies for the Church, pp. 245–252. Study Section III of Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 65–107.

“If all the tithes of our people flowed into the treasury of the Lord as they should, such blessings would be received that gifts and offerings for sacred purposes would be multiplied tenfold, and thus the channel between God and man would be kept open.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 474. This is an amazing statement. If we were all faithful tithers, God would bless us with funds to increase our offerings 1,000 percent.

“In the third chapter of Malachi is found the contract God has made with man. Here the Lord specifies the part He will act in bestowing His great gifts on those who will make a faithful return to Him in tithes and offerings.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, December 17, 1901.

“All should remember that God’s claims upon us underlie every other claim. He gives to us bountifully, and the contract which He has made with man is that a tenth of his possessions shall be returned to God. The Lord graciously entrusts to His stewards His treasures, but of the tenth He says: This is Mine. Just in proportion as God has given His property to man, so man is to return to God a faithful tithe of all his substance. This distinct arrangement was made by Jesus Christ Himself.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, p. 384.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Dwell more on this idea that the practice of tithing did not originate in ancient Israel. How does this fact help us understand the perpetuity of this obligation on our part before God?`

`In class, discuss the question posed at the end of Monday’s study. Think of what would happen if people decided to send their tithe somewhere else. What would happen to our church? Would we even have a church? What’s wrong with the attitude that says, Well, my tithe is so small in contrast to everything else, it doesn’t matter. What if everyone thought like that?`

`Share with others what you have learned and experienced from giving tithe. What can you teach others about the practice?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Gospel Workers, “Effect of Receiving the Spirit,” pp. 287, 288;<br/>
Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, “Faithful Stewardship,” pp. 245–252.<br/>