---
title:  The Royal Wedding
date:  05/05/2019
---

**Evidence**: Song of Sol. 4:1–7; 4:16; 7:1–9; 1 Cor. 6:15–20; 7:3–5; 2 Cor. 10:5; Gal. 5:24–26; 1 John 1:9

The world watched the lovely marriage between Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on May 19, 2018, at Saint George’s Chapel in Windsor Castle. Many people’s hearts were swept away by the harmonious music that filled the room, the breathtaking ambiance of the ceremony, and of course, the joyous affection of the newly wedded couple. As Prince Harry and Meghan exchanged their vows in front of millions of viewers, they made a lifelong commitment to love and to cherish each other before God.

Marriage is a beautiful gift given to humanity by the Creator. With it come special challenges and blessings alike. When held in its proper context, it is a profound expression of love.

However, common misconceptions have led people to believe that the Bible is against sex. God’s Word is not against sex itself but against the misuse of this precious gift. In fact, Song of Solomon describes a relationship between a young Shulamite bride and her beloved, who is believed to be King Solomon. The book expresses the beauty of a conjugal love in marriage between the couple (Song of Sol. 4:1–7; 4:16; 7:1–9).

Unfortunately, the misuse of this gift has led many into the devil’s snare. Sexual impurity in this generation is publicized everywhere (e.g., TV, billboards, and music). It hinders and flaws the image that God intended for humanity to experience within a marriage. It opens deep wounds of broken relationships and increases loads of emotional distress that, sadly, many people experience. When we allow our desires and passions to rule over God’s plan for our lives, we can find ourselves in despair. Thankfully, we have a loving Savior who is able to redeem us. We can be sure that “if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9, NIV).

Our bodies are not our own (1 Cor. 6:15–20). When we submit ourselves fully to God, we will understand how to fully submit and express true love within the context of marriage (1 Cor. 7:3–5). Therefore, let us humbly put away the lustful passions and desires from our hearts and choose to live by the Spirit, in purity and truth (Gal. 5:24–26).

**React**

`How can we remain pure while living in a world that focuses on selfishly appeasing sexual desires and passions?`

---

_Karenda Enka Swain, Freeport, Bahamas_