---
title:  Behind the Scenes
date:  07/05/2019
---

**Testimony**: Gen. 2:21–25; Song of Sol. 8:4; Amos 3:3; Hos. 11:8, 9; 2 Cor. 6:14

One of the most extraordinary gifts God has blessed humanity with is that of relationship. The marriage relationship, in particular, is the most intimate of all (Gen. 2:21–25). The inexplicable ability of two separate beings to become one is an incomprehensible concept. It is a sheer mystery how both husband and wife can maintain a keen sense of individuality without hindrance to the unique oneness established through the consecration of marriage.

Unfortunately, marriage has become so glamorized by Hollywood that many no longer contemplate with precaution the character of the one they are partnering with for a lifetime. Instead of asking the nagging question, “So when are you getting married?” perhaps we ought to spend more time praying for our young people. “It is from the marriage hour that many men and women date their success or failure in this life, and their hopes of the future life.”1 In spite of the challenges that may exist within the marriage relationship, there is no need to be fearful. “It is a blessing wherever the marriage covenant is entered into intelligently, in the fear of God, and with due consideration for its responsibilities.”2

The special bond between husband and wife can be firmly knitted through their sexual experience (Song of Sol. 8:4). The Bible uses the imagery of nature to present a PG13 version3 of the sexual exploits of the Shulamite bride and her beloved, who is believed to be King Solomon. In fact, throughout Scripture God likens His relationship to His people to that of the marriage covenant. The book of Hosea presents a clear example of the extent to which God is willing to go to honor His covenantal agreement with Israel (Hos. 11:8, 9). It is evident that God wanted a relationship that superseded the outward verbal expressions of commitment. God wants to experience spiritual intimacy with His people as well. Likewise, in a marital relationship, it is essential that couples achieve spiritual intimacy (2 Cor. 6:14; Amos 3:3). Spiritual intimacy can develop through praying for each other and worshiping and reading God’s Word together.

**React**

`1. When contemplating marriage, what is the most important thing for individuals to consider?`

`2. Is spiritual intimacy an asset to marriage? Why or why not?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “Unwise Marriages,” The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, Feb. 2, 1886.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 356, 357.</sup>

<sup>3. PG13 is a rating used by the Motion Picture Association of America film rating system. It means, “Parents strongly cautioned—some material may be inappropriate for chidren under 13.”</sup>

_Anastacia Ferguson, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_