---
title:  A Blessed Marriage
date:  08/05/2019
---

**How-to**: Isa. 54:5; Matt. 9:14–17; Mark 2:21, 22; 2 Cor. 5:17; 11:2; Eph. 5:27; Rev. 19:7

As she rises from the pool, water droplets plaster her hair to her face. A white towel is wrapped around her shoulders as triumphant applause explodes from the congregation. It is a celebration that we have been most blessed to witness: the baptism of a new follower of Jesus Christ.

For the Bible-believing Christian, baptism is a marriage ceremony for the new believer who has chosen to dedicate the rest of his or her life to Christ, who has publicly declared one’s love for Him. The deeper we enter into our covenant with Him, the more we will find that His love for us, His chosen Bride, is stronger than ever (Isa. 54:5; Rev. 19:7). You can experience the beauty of marriage to Christ every day by simply applying these principles to your daily life:

Throw out your tarnished robes. Before we put on our new garments approved for the new occasion in our lives, we first have to disrobe of the less appealing dress. Out with the old; in with the new (Matt. 9:14–17; Mark 2:21, 22). Maybe true love is hard for you to picture because your parents were divorced or you suffered abuse as a child. Despite the pain of your past, God doesn’t love you any less. Wear your new robes proudly.

Renew your commitment daily. Marriage vows don’t stop at the wedding. You don’t just say “I do” at the ceremony and then go on to live a life separate from your spouse. No, your commitment to your wife or husband is one that you must live out daily; otherwise, your declaration of love is meaningless. Show the world you are married to Christ by how you live your life. Remember God’s love for you. It’s hard to be in a place where you feel neglected, unloved, and uncared for. Sometimes this can result from being neglected in childhood, being bullied as a teen, or having a friend or family member betray you. Whatever the case may be, take comfort in knowing that God’s love for you does not depend on how others have treated you in the past. In fact, it surpasses that every time. Don’t let go of His love because when you’re hanging off the edge of a cliff, God is your only lifeline, and He’s still holding on to you.

**React**

`1. What are some ways you can reflect your marriage to Christ, so that others may see?`

`2. How does your love for God translate over to your understanding of what a marriage should look like?`

---

_Alexandra Yeboah, Brampton, Ontario, Canada_