---
title:  The Call to Go Deeper
date:  09/05/2019
---

**Opinion**: 1 Cor. 12:27

There are people in this world (some reading this lesson) who do not have a “traditional” family. You might be single; maybe your parents passed away or you were in foster care at a young age. I know of people who became Christians and their family disowned them—that might be you. Some of you might have seen your name in the sentences above, and that is OK. Belonging to the scenarios above does not make you less than kin in the family of God. Everyone has a place in the family of God.

The story of the creation of humanity in Genesis 1 and 2 is a great place to start to gain an understanding of our sexuality. Sexuality is not just a physical interaction but a continuous and spiritual experience. One of the first points we notice when we go back to this story is that there was a man and a woman, Adam and Eve. We primarily use this origin story to glorify marriage, and there is nothing wrong with that. Unfortunately, if we stop there, we miss the full beauty in the creation story. Adam was alone because there was no one else like him, so God formed a woman, Eve, to make Adam (humanity) whole. Eve was female, and Adam was male, but that was not the extent of their differences. Maybe Adam liked rice and Eve loved beans. While the example is arbitrary, I hope you understand the point: every human being is unique, but our uniqueness does not derive from and is not limited to our sexual organs. There is more to who we are than our sex. Imagine if more people thought like that—just because I am a woman does not mean I will be like every other woman. In fact, it is our differences that make us valuable members of the body of Christ.

Truly, how can we connect with others and be in community with them if we cannot embrace what makes them different? I think we are not as inclusive as we should be as Christians. God is calling us into a deeper relationship, not through sameness or stereotypes but through the valuing of diversity, life stories, and experiences.

**React**

`1. Think of one person in your life who can bring you closer to God.`

`2. In what ways can you honor God through your relationships?`

---

_Brittany Venus Hudson, Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada_