---
title:  Out of This World
date:  10/05/2019
---

**Exploration**: Song of Solomon 2

**Conclude**

Marriage is like the flowers that grow and bloom in springtime. It is truly a time of joy and a time of singing. We know that most flowers don’t appear in the wintertime or even in the fall; flowers appear at their appointed time and with the right conditions of the soil. The same is true with the gift of marriage and sexual intimacy. When we receive this gift in the appointed time and follow sound biblical counsel, it can be a taste of heaven on earth.

**Consider**

- Drawing the things you believe would produce a happy home and sharing it with your classmates.
- Asking an older married couple about the joys of marriage and what they have done to maintain their marriage.
- Reflecting on what it means to have a marriage that is a taste of heaven. Write your reflections in a journal.
- Reading the first paragraph on page 106 in The Adventist Home with a friend. Closely examine and discuss it.
- Searching the topical index on egwwritings.org to see what other things Ellen White says about marriage and sex. Record the excerpts that stand out to you for your future reference.
- Singing hymn no. 652 in the Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal, “Love at Home,” and meditating on the verses and chorus.
- Praying for God’s hands to lead you to a heavenly union at the right time and with the right person.


**Connect**

Ephesians 5:22–33; Matthew 19:4–6; Hebrews 13:4–7.

Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home; Testimonies on Sexual Behavior, Adultery, and Divorce; Mind, Character, and Personality, chaps. 23–25.

Nancy L. Van Pelt, To Have and to Hold (Southern Publishing Association, 1980).

---

_Jonthue Michel, Newport, New Hampshire, USA_