---
title:  Death On An Earth Filled With Sin
date:  01/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 2:16, 17; Genesis 3:1–7; Genesis 3:4; Genesis 3:7–19; Genesis 3:15, 21.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Sin entered the world because one man sinned. And death came because of sin. Everyone sinned, so death came to all people” (Romans 5:12, NIrV).

JESUS made all the faraway planets and filled them with life (John 1:1–3, 10; Colossians 1:16; Hebrews 1:2). Then God the Father honored Jesus in a special way. God the Father announced that He and Jesus together were going to make our earth and everything in it. This news made Lucifer jealous of Jesus (read Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 14). So, Lucifer made a secret plan to work against Jesus.

Then God threw Satan out of heaven. Satan wanted to “hurt God in heaven and make Him feel sad.” So, Satan decided “to destroy Adam and Eve’s happiness” on earth. Satan wanted to find “a way to trick Adam and Eve to disobey God. Then God would pardon Adam and Eve. When that happened, Satan felt God must be fair and show mercy to him and his evil angels, too.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 27, adapted. God knew all about Satan’s evil plan. So, God warned Adam and Eve not to go near the forbidden tree (Genesis 2:16, 17). Do you see that God gave humans rules to obey before sin filled the earth?

This week, we will study about Adam and Eve’s sin. We will learn how sin and death took control of this earth. We also will see that God gave hope to humans in Eden.