---
title:  'God Or The Snake: Who Should Eve Trust?'
date:  02/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Lord made the earth perfect (Genesis 1:31). So, before the Fall, Adam and Eve knew nothing about death. God warned Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden about death: “ ‘You may eat the fruit from any tree in the garden. But you must not eat the fruit from the tree which gives the knowledge of [about] good and evil. If you ever eat fruit from that tree, you will die!’ ” (Genesis 2:16, 17, ICB).

`Did God really need to warn Adam and Eve about the snake? Why does God need to warn Adam and Eve if they can’t choose between good and evil? Read Genesis 2:16, 17 for the answer.`

Sometime later, Satan pretends to be a talking snake and enters Eden. Eve sees the snake eating the forbidden fruit. The snake acts happy. He is not dying or dead. Ellen G. White tells us, “The snake himself ate the forbidden fruit” and nothing happened to him.—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 54, adapted.

`What do you think Eve felt when she listened to the snake? Why do you think Eve believed the snake’s lies? Read Genesis 3:1–4 for the answers.`

The snake gave Eve two reasons that convinced her that God was wrong. First, Eve saw no sin or death in nature. Second, the snake himself ate the forbidden fruit in front of Eve. She saw that he enjoyed it very much, too. So, why can’t Eve enjoy it, too? Eve felt that God’s command was too strict. Eve didn’t understand why God wanted to limit her freedom.

Sad to say, Eve made the wrong choice. She forgot three important rules: (1) Human thinking is not the safest way to judge spiritual questions. (2) We may not always understand the reasons for God’s commands. But we must trust that God is always right. (3) God often gives us tests to see if we will obey Him. So, we must stay away from the things that God forbids. Every day we need to decide between the Bible and the culture or the life we see around us. Our choices can change our lives forever.

`How are Bible teachings different from culture or the life we see around us?`