---
title:  Tricked By The Snake 
date:  03/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What were Eve’s reasons to eat the forbidden fruit? Read Genesis 3:1–7 for the answer.`

Genesis 3 shows us how Satan tricks our minds to try to get us to sin. As we know, God warned Adam and Eve not to eat the forbidden fruit. If they do, they will die for sure (Genesis 2:16, 17). Satan uses the snake to talk to Eve as part of his plan to trick her. The snake asks Eve several questions that cause her to sin.

First, the snake causes Eve to not believe God. The snake wants Eve to think that she doesn’t understand God’s command. The snake asks, “Did God really say, ‘You must not eat fruit from any tree in the garden’?” (Genesis 3:1, NIrV). Eve argued that the rule only was about the forbidden tree. She and Adam must not eat from it or touch it. If they do, they will die.

Next, Satan rejected God’s words. “But the snake said to the woman, ‘You will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, ERV).

Finally, Satan blamed God for hiding important information from Eve and her husband. Satan argued, “ ‘God knows that if you eat the fruit from that tree, you will learn about good and evil. Then you will be like [the same as] God!’ ” (Genesis 3:5, ICB).

Eve wants to know more about the forbidden tree. So, after God warns her not to go near the tree, Eve does not listen. At the tree, Eve must decide between God’s words and Satan’s lies. Eve doubts God. Eve believes what she sees with her own eyes. She lets her own personal experience guide her.

First, Eve saw that the fruit was a healthy choice: “the fruit looked so good to eat” (Genesis 3:6, ERV). Second, the fruit was beautiful (Genesis 3:6). So, Eve believed the fruit would make her happy. Third, Eve felt the fruit would give her special knowledge: “She also liked the idea that it would make her wise” (Genesis 3:6, ERV). So, Eve felt she had good reasons to trust the snake. Sad to say, she ate the fruit.

Some people think that all knowledge is good as long as we follow this Bible rule: “test everything. Keep what is good” (1 Thessalonians 5:21, ERV). But Adam and Eve’s sad experience teaches us that some knowledge can hurt us.

What does this story teach us about our choices? Why do we make bad decisions so easily?