---
title:  “ ‘you Will Not Die’ ” 
date:  04/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the snake’s lie in Genesis 3:4. What are the different ways that people have told this same lie again and again during human history?`

We see this lie in the teaching that the spirit doesn’t die when the body dies. This false teaching was part of many religions in Bible times. In Egypt during Old Testament times, this false teaching led many people to make mummies and pyramids.

This false idea about the spirit also became an important Greek teaching. In the book The Republic of Plato, Socrates asks: “Don’t you know that our spirit lives forever and never dies?” In Plato’s book Phaedo, Socrates says: “Our spirits will continue living after our bodies die.” Later, Christians in Europe accepted these false ideas. But the teachings come from a much earlier time. These ideas started in Eden with Satan himself.

Satan told Eve, “ ‘No, you for sure will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, NLV). With these strong words, Satan made his own words more important than the Word of God.

`Read Psalm 115:17; John 5:28, 29; Psalm 146:4; Matthew 10:28; and 1 Corinthians 15:51–58. What do these verses teach? How can we use this Bible truth to show Satan’s lies?`

Everywhere, we see Satan’s lie that the spirit lives forever and doesn’t die. Modern books, movies, and TV shows continue to teach this lie. So, people believe that when our bodies die, our spirits continue to live. Sad to say, this lie is taught in many Christian churches today. Science also teaches this false idea. Some scientists say that they invented a way to contact the dead. The scientists believe the dead really are alive and don’t need to have bodies. This false idea is everywhere. So, we shouldn’t be surprised that this lie will have a big part in the end times.

How have you seen this lie in your own culture or in the life you see around you? Why must we trust the Bible? Why can’t we trust our own experience?