---
title:  The Evil That Sin Caused 
date:  05/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What bad things happened because of sin? For the answers, read Genesis 3:7–19 and Romans 5:12.`

The snake tricked Eve with his attractive lies. Eve didn’t  know that her sin would cause so many terrible things to happen. When Eve ate, she disobeyed God. She was no longer loyal to God. She was now loyal to Satan.

Genesis 3 talks about Adam and Eve and their life after they sinned. Adam and Eve became afraid of God. So, they hid from Him (Genesis 3:8). Adam and Eve were ashamed of their sin and felt guilty. They started to blame each other (Genesis 3:7, 9–13). Pain, sweat, and death became part of their experience (Genesis 3:16–19). Death became part of the lives of the plants and animals, too (Genesis 3:17, 18). Sin spoiled much of nature’s beauty.

The Garden of Eden was no longer as beautiful as it had been before sin. “Adam and Eve watched the flowers hang down. They saw the leaves fall and rot. These signs of death caused Adam and Eve to feel very sad. They cried more deeply over the dying flowers than men now cry when their loved ones die. The dying flowers caused Adam and Eve to feel very sad, yes. But when the leaves fell off the beautiful trees, Adam and Eve understood that death was now part of life for every living thing.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 62, adapted.

Adam and Eve didn’t die right away. But on that same day God announced their punishment. The Lord told Adam, “ ‘You will work hard for your food, until your face is covered with sweat. You will work hard until the day you die, and then you will become dust again. I used dust to make you, and when you die, you will become dust again’ ” (Genesis 3:19, ERV). Sin brought terrible changes to life for all humans. Paul explains that “sin entered the world [the earth] because one man sinned. And death came because of sin. Everyone sinned, so death came to all people” (Romans 5:12, NIrV). Today, we continue to suffer because of the bad things that happened in Eden. But Jesus gives us hope of everlasting life on a new earth where sin will never happen again. Let us thank Jesus for His help.

How does Adam and Eve’s story help us understand our evil behavior?