---
title:  The First Promise 
date:  06/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 3:15, 21. What hope in these verses can we find for the human family?`

Genesis 3 talks about the awful tragedy that happened after the Fall. But God gave Adam and Eve hope. First, God cursed the snake. The curse held a promise of hope for all humans. God announced to the snake, “ ‘I will make you and the woman enemies to each other. Your children and her children will be enemies’ ” (Genesis 3:15, ERV).

The word “enemies” comes from the Hebrew word “eybah.” This word shows us that the worldwide war between good and evil will continue for a long time. The word “enemies” also shows that God will put hatred for sin in human hearts. Without Jesus, our “spiritual lives” are “dead” (Ephesians 2:1, 5, ICB). We are “slaves to sin” (Romans 6:20, ICB). Jesus gives us new life. This new life fills us with hatred for sin and makes us the enemies of Satan. This hatred for sin allows us to accept God’s saving mercy. We need God’s saving mercy. Without it, our lives can’t change. We will continue to be Satan’s slaves.

Next, the Lord uses an animal offering to show Adam and Eve His promise (read Genesis 3:21). “God commanded Adam to make an offering for sin. This offering broke Adam’s heart. Adam must kill the animal. Only God can give this life. This experience was the first time Adam saw something die. Adam looked at the bleeding and suffering animal. The animal’s death showed Jesus’ death on the cross. Jesus was the offering for man’s sins.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 50, adapted.

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:21 and Hebrews 9:28. What do these verses teach us about the saving promise that God first showed us in Eden?`

Adam and Eve leave Eden (Genesis 3:19, 22–24). They know they will die someday. When they leave Eden, they are not wearing fig leaves anymore (Genesis 3:7). God Himself made them clothes from animal skins (Genesis 3:21). God Himself put the clothes on Adam and Eve. The clothes are a symbol of God’s own mercy and holy life (Zechariah 3:1–5; Luke 15:22). So, since the beginning, we see that God showed humans the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin.