---
title:  Further Thought
date:  07/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Temptation and Fall,” pages 52–62, and “The Plan of Redemption,” pages 63–70, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Recently, scientists did studies on Near Death Experiences (NDEs). These studies try to explain what happens when people “die.” The heart stops pumping blood. The lungs stop breathing. But then the dead people “come back to life.” These people have surprising stories about visiting other places or going to heaven when they were “dead.” Many of these people meet a shining person. Some of these people who “wake up from the dead” say that they met family members who died a long time ago. People who don’t understand the Bible truth about death believe that these stories are proof that the spirit doesn’t die. But the shining person and the dead family members in these NDEs don’t say anything about Jesus or His saving mercy. They only say nice words about love and peace. Don’t you think that is strange? Shouldn’t the people who “wake up from the dead” at least get a small sermon about Bible truth from their dead loved ones? What the dead family members or the shining person do teach are New Age ideas. Maybe this helps explain why the people who “wake up from the dead” change their beliefs. Also, why did none of these Christians learn anything about Christianity while they were in “heaven”? The answer is that these people were tricked by the same person who lied to Eve in Eden. Satan tricked them both with the same lie, too. (Read lesson 11 for more information.)

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does Adam and Eve’s experience show that God’s forgiveness doesn’t remove the evil that sin causes? Why is this Bible truth so important to remember?`

`God forbade Adam and Eve to go near the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. What things does God warn us to stay away from today?`

`Satan tries to trick God’s people today. Satan wants us to believe that “Jesus’ rules are not very strict. If we relax our rules, then non-Christians will accept us more than they do now.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, page 474, adapted. How can we keep away from this trap?`