---
title:  THE RULES OF GOD’S KINGDOM
date:   15/09/2019
---

Both Jesus and New Testament writers teach us about the rules of God’s kingdom. Members of God’s kingdom must live by different rules than the people on earth follow. 

`Read Matthew 6:25–33. What promise does Jesus give us in these verses? How does that promise change our lives?`

Jesus taught that “ ‘life is more important than food. And the body is more important than clothes’ ” (Matthew 6:25, ICB). Of course, food and clothes are important. But there are other things that are more important. Helping other people is more important than food and clothes. The Bible asks us to take care of the ones who need help. This work should become one of the most important things in our lives. Then we will think less about ourselves and more about helping other people. 

This way of thinking will change the way we feel about our leaders. The Bible tells Christians to respect and obey their government (read Romans 13:1–7). But there may come a time when we need to follow what Peter and some other Christian leaders said: “ ‘We must obey God, not men!’ ” (Acts 5:29, ICB). Jesus said we should honor God and our government: “ ‘Pay to Caesar [leader of the Roman Kingdom] the things that belong to Caesar. Pay to God the things that belong to God’ ” (Matthew 22:21, NLV).

Many leaders use force to lead and stay in power. But sometimes we must fight against the evil things they do. Slavery is one example. Ellen G. White wrote about slavery in America. She said, “Sometimes the laws of a country will go against God’s law. When that happens, we must obey God’s law, even if we are punished for doing so. The law of our country says that we must give a runaway slave to his master. But we must not obey this law. We must accept the punishment that comes from breaking it. The slave does not belong to any man. God is his master. God made him. So, no man can say that he owns another person.”—Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 1, pages 201, 202.

`We must obey our leaders. At the same time, we also must help people who are being hurt by our leaders. How do we know when it is the right time to help people who are being hurt by our government?`

*“The slave does not belong to any man. God is his master.”*