---
title:  TOO TIRED TO SERVE
date:   16/09/2019
---

Many Christians want to do more to help people. These Christians wonder what they can do to make people’s lives better. Here are some ways:

**Love**. The first thing we can do is show suffering people that we see that they are hurt. Today, people talk about being “too tired to serve.” These words mean that people get used to the sorrow and awful things that happen in life. Then they feel too tired to feel love any more for people who need our help. Jesus saw evil and pain all around Him. But He stayed loving. We can too. 

**Education**. It is important for us to learn everything we can about the people we want to help. Some Christians try to help other people. But they do not take the time to learn what they can about the needs of the people they are helping. Then these Christians cause a lot of problems. We should try to learn everything we can first about the people we want to help. We should learn about their lives and their needs. Then we will be able to serve them better. 

**Prayer**. When we see a problem, the first thing we want to do is fix it. But the Bible tells us that we should start with prayer first. Our prayers can change the lives of the poor and the suffering. We also can pray for the leaders who have power over the poor and suffering (read 1 Timothy 2:1, 2). We also must ask God to show us the best way to offer these leaders our help (read Proverbs 2:7, 8).

**Choices**. We must be patient when we help other people. We hope that the things we do for them will help them make the right choices. But that does not always happen. Sometimes the people we help will make bad decisions. We must respect their choices. Jesus said, “ ‘Do for other people the same things you want them to do for you’ ” (Matthew 7:12, ICB). We must let this rule guide whatever we do to help other people. 

`Read James 1:5–8. These verses talk about prayer. How important is prayer in all that we do as Christians? What does James 2:15, 16 say we can do to help God answer our prayers for other people?`

*Today, people talk about being “too tired to serve.”*