---
title: 'Happy To Give'
date: 17/09/2019
---

“God loves those [people] who are happy to give” (2 Corinthians 9:7, ERV). Giving is an important part of our lives as Christians. Giving is about more than gifts of money. There are other things we can give to God too. The Bible says, “Good things will come to those [people] who are fair in everything they do” (Psalm 112:5, NIrV).

**What do the verses below tell us about why we should give to people in need?**

`Leviticus 25:35–37`

`Psalm 119:36`

`2 Corinthians 8:12–15`

`1 John 3:16–18`

`1 Timothy 6:17–19`

Paul often talks about how much God loves to give. He gave us His Son to die for our sins. This gift is the reason for our Christian hope. Our faith in Jesus’ death is the reason we give to other people: “I pray that the faith you share will make you understand every blessing we have in Christ” (Philemon 1:6, ERV).

So much in our lives causes us to keep as much as we can for ourselves. Most people today live for “me, me, me.” But our faith will cause us to live more for other people. Our faith helps us see people as God sees them. God sees both their good and their bad parts. He loves them anyway. God’s love for other people causes us to want to help them, even if helping them is hard work. 

Our giving money to help the poor is good. But our giving money does not always mean that we are unselfish (read Mark 12:41–44). Giving goes deeper than our wallets or purses. It goes to our hearts. True giving changes our lives on the inside. Most people are born selfish. They do not know how to give. 

We need God’s love to change our hearts first. 

*Giving is about more than gifts of money.*