---
title:  PEOPLE WHO MAKE PEACE
date:   18/09/2019
---

`Read Matthew 5:9. What does Jesus say to do in this verse? How can we live this truth today?`

War and fighting cause much suffering. War destroys lives. War also costs a lot of money. Think of all the people we can help with that money! But our leaders spend it on weapons. These are the big wars between countries or between people from the same country. But there are small “wars” fought every day in families and communities too. That is why we, as Christians, must not only work to make things fair. But we also must remember to work for peace too. 

The Good News about Jesus is a message about peace. The Good News is Jesus’ act of bringing peace between God and humans (read 2 Corinthians 5:18–21). Jesus connects us to our Father in heaven. Together, we can work with Jesus to help other people become one with God too. 

`How do we live the truth in Isaiah 52:7?`

Yes, the Good News offers us peace. That peace causes us to want to bring peace to this earth. “The heart that is at peace with God has the peace of heaven. A person at peace with God will share this blessing everywhere. Then the spirit of peace will rest in hearts that are tired because of all the troubles happening in this life.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 28, adapted. 

In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, “ ‘Those [people] who work to bring peace are happy. God will call [name] them his sons’ ” (Matthew 5:9, ICB). What do Jesus’ words about peace really mean? For the answer, let us start by looking at Matthew 5:21–26. Jesus commands us not to kill. He also says we should not be angry. We should forgive. We also must love our enemies. We should pray for people who hurt us (read Matthew 5:43–48). We should do everything we can to help them. That is what it means to be at peace with other people. 

`What are ways that your local church can work to bring peace in your community?`

*We should pray for people who hurt us.*