---
title:  THE HANDS AND THE FEET OF JESUS
date:   19/09/2019
---

Solomon wrote, “There is a time to be silent and a time to speak” (Ecclesiastes 3:7, ERV). Solomon was right. For us, the hard part is knowing the right time to do the right thing. Maybe we, as a church, have not done enough to help the needy.

Christians talk about being the hands and feet of Jesus. That means that we must obey Jesus’ command to help people. But God asks us to protect people. We must fight for the people that God wants to help and protect (read Psalm 146:6–10). 

`Read Isaiah 58:1–10. What is the message in these verses? What does it say to us today? How much has changed between the time when Isaiah wrote this message and our time today?`

Isaiah was a prophet. Prophets are God’s special messengers. God often sent His prophets to warn His people to change their lives and be fair. Many people did not want to hear these messages. But the prophets understood that God wanted His people to be fair. So, the prophets helped the poor. They tried to make their lives better. The prophets’ work to help people often put them in danger (read 1 Peter 3:17). They made leaders angry. These powerful men did not want to change.

As Seventh-day Adventists, we have many good things to offer people. God gave us many blessings. He gave us the Good News. He asks us to show Jesus in our lives. God’s gifts to us can help solve some of the problems on this earth. One of those problems is helping the poor.

“As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that God asks us to help the poor. Our helping the poor is an important part of our work as Christians. The Bible clearly shows that God cares very much about the poor. He expects His followers to take care of people who need help. All humans show that they are copies of God. He gives His blessings to everyone (Luke 6:20). We follow Jesus’ example and teaching when we help the poor (Matthew 25:35, 36). Seventh-day Adventists must “open [their] mouths for those [people] who cannot speak [we must defend them and ask our leaders to give them what belongs to them by law]” (Proverbs 31:8, NLV).”—Seventh-day Adventist Official [important] Statement on Global [worldwide] Poverty [being poor], June 24, 2010.

*Christians talk about being the hands and feet of Jesus. That means we must obey Jesus’ command to help people.*