---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 20/09/2019
---

**Additional thought**

Ellen G. White, “A Higher Experience,” pages 503–516, in The Ministry of Healing; “Duty to the Unfortunate” and “Man’s Duty to His Fellow Men,” pages 511–526, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 3; “Doing for Christ,” pages 24–37, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 2.

“We must show mercy to people who need our help. These works of mercy show a powerful truth. It is the truth about Jesus. There is no other truth shown in heaven and earth that is more powerful. It is part of the Golden Rule. God asks us to do for other people what we want them to do for us. Christians must show this truth in their lives. When they do, God will give the church the power to preach the Good News. It will be the same power He gave to the church during the New Testament times.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 137, adapted. 

“We must love God more than we love anything else. We also must love each other with unselfish hearts. This love comes from our Father in Heaven. It is the best gift He can give us. This love is more than a feeling. It is God’s own power. It is His law. The heart that is not saved cannot make this love on its own. This love comes only from the heart of Jesus. . . . We must take this love deep into our hearts. Then our lives will be sweet. We will have the power to change the lives of other people around us.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 551.

**Discussion questions**

`1. As we learned this week, the Good News about Jesus continues to be an example for Christians. It teaches us how to live and help other people. How has the Good News given you a deeper understanding of how God shows His love for us? In what ways does the Good News make you thankful for everything God does for us?`

`2. Sometimes in our work to make peace and help the poor we may need to take a stand against things that are not fair. When is it wrong to speak out in public about this? When is it right for us to do so? What is the difference?`

*“God asks us to do for other people what we want them to do for us.”*