---
title:  The Chosen
date:   09/12/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 10; 11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
>  “Did God turn his back on his people [the Jews]? Not at all! I myself belong to Israel. I am one of Abraham’s children. I am from the tribe [family group] of Benjamin” (Romans 11:1, NIrV).

In this week's lesson, we will look at Romans 10 and 11. We shall give special attention to chapter 11. It is important to read over both chapters first before trying to make sense of Paul’s words.

Romans 10 and 11 have been, and continue to be, the center of much discussion. But two important ideas are made clear to us in these two chapters: (1) God’s love is for everyone and (2) God wishes to see everyone saved. God does not reject any group of people as not worth saving. Paul makes this truth very clear: “There is no difference between the Jews and the people who are not Jews” (Romans 10:12, NLV). Indeed, all people are sinners. Everyone needs God’s saving power. God gives His saving power to everyone who believes in Jesus. God does not give us His saving power because of where we were born or because of the works we do.

Paul also talks about the people God chooses. Paul is not talking about who is saved or not saved. Instead, Paul means the people that God chooses to work with Him. Again, God never chose to save some people and not others. Paul never meant that. Instead, Paul is talking about the people God chooses to work with Him to reach everyone on the earth with the Good News that Jesus saves humans from sin.
