---
title:  Christ and the Law
date:   10/12/2017
---

`What is the message of Romans 10:1–4? How are we in danger of trying to get right with God in our own power instead of accepting God’s power to make us right with Him?`

Another name for trying to save yourself by being good and by doing good works is legalism. There are many different kinds of legalism. Legalism can include the act of trying to save ourselves by (1) doing good works, (2) eating healthy food, (3) keeping the Sabbath, (3) avoiding evil, (4) and being a success in our work for God. All of these things are good. But people who do these things to save themselves have fallen into the trap of legalism. Every minute of our lives, we must remember that God is holy and that we are full of sin. This truth is the best way to protect ourselves from trying to make ourselves right with God by our own good behavior. We are not good on our own. So, when we try to be made right with God by our good behavior, we go against God’s way of making us right with Him. God’s way is only by faith in Jesus and the things Jesus did for us.

Romans 10:4 is an important verse. We find in it the meaning of all of Paul’s message to the Romans. But to understand Romans 10:4, we need to understand the meaning of the verses around it first. Many Jews “tried to get right with God in their own way” (Romans 10:3, NIrV). These Jews tried to be “made right by following the law” (Romans 10:5, ICB). But then God sent Jesus to this earth. Jesus came to show us the only way that we can be made right with God. God’s gift of making us right with Him is named God’s righteousness. God offered His righteousness to everyone who would put his or her faith in Jesus.

Now, let us say that the “law” in Romans 10:5 includes the Ten Commandments. Our saying that does not mean that the Ten Commandments were thrown out. The Ten Commandments also are named the moral law. The moral law points out our sin. The moral law shows us our need of a Savior and our need to be made right with God. All these things are found only in Jesus. So, in this way, Jesus “has put an end to the law” (Romans 10:4, NLV). The law led us to Jesus and to Jesus’ power to make us right with God. The Greek word for “end” here is *telos*. *Telos* also can be written as “purpose.” The law is meant to lead us to Jesus
