---
title:  Chosen By God's Loving-Favor
date:   11/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 11:1–7. What teaching do these verses show to us very clearly?`

Paul asks the question, “Did God turn his back on his people [the Jews]?” (Romans 11:1, NIrV). In answer, Paul points to a remnant. You will remember from past lessons that a remnant is a small piece of cloth left over from a larger roll of cloth. This small piece of cloth is a symbol for the Jews in whom God continues to work. The remnant is chosen by God’s loving-favor.  The remnant is proof that God has not thrown away the Jews. Indeed, all people have the chance to be saved.

We need to remember that the first Christians were all Jews. There was the group of Jews who accepted the Good News about Jesus on the Day of Pentecost. The Day of Pentecost was the special time when God poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit on Jesus’ believers shortly after Jesus went back to heaven (read Acts 2:1–4). Thousands of people accepted Jesus at that time. But the first Jewish Christians had trouble believing that God meant for everyone to be saved. As a matter of fact, God had to convince Peter in a special vision and by a miracle that people who were not Jews also could have God’s loving-favor (Acts 10; read also Acts 15:7–10).

`Read Romans 11:7–10. Paul says that some Jews “refused to listen to God” (Romans 11:7, ICB). So, God “ ‘closed their eyes so they could not see’ ” (Romans 11:8, ICB). Does Paul mean that God “made it hard” for the ones who rejected Jesus “to understand” (Romans 11:8, NIrV)? Why is that idea wrong?`

In Romans 11:8–10, Paul uses several Old Testament verses. The Jews believed the Old Testament had the power to guide their lives. The verses Paul points to use a word picture to show God giving Israel hearts and minds that wanted to sleep, and eyes and ears that could not see or hear the things God said. Does God “blind” people’s minds to stop them from “seeing” truth that would lead them to choose to be saved? Never! So, we must understand that the word pictures in these verses mean the same thing that Romans 9 means. Paul is not talking about the people who are saved or lost here. Instead, Paul is talking about the part God chooses for people to have in His work.
