---
title:  The Natural Branches
date:   12/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 11:11–15. What wonderful hope does Paul in these verses offer to the Jews?`

In Romans 11:11–15, we find two sets of wordings that are almost the same in meaning and in the way they are written. The first wording is “when all Israel turns to God” (Romans 11:12, NIrV) or “their full return [coming back]” to God (CEV). The second wording is “when they [the people of Israel] are also gathered in” (Romans 11:15, NLV). What is Paul talking about here? The wordings show that the people of Israel had not fallen away from God forever. In fact, Paul saw that their falling away from God would last for only a limited amount of time. Then their falling away would be followed by their fully turning to God. Here is Paul’s second answer to the question asked at the beginning of Romans 11. You will remember his question was, “Did God throw out His people?” Paul’s answer is “No.” One day God will gather His people back to Him.

`Read Romans 11:16–24. What is Paul saying to us here?`

Paul shows us that the Jews who stay loyal to God are the same as a good olive tree. Some branches of this good olive tree were broken off. Those broken branches are a symbol of the Jews who do not believe in Jesus. Paul uses this word picture to prove that God did not “throw out His people” (Romans 11:2, ICB). The good olive tree is missing some of its branches. But its root and trunk are alive.

God put the non-Jewish believers into the place where the bad branches were broken off. These new branches now pull sap and life from the root and trunk. The root and trunk are a word picture for loyal Israel.

What happened to the Jews who rejected Jesus also could happen to the non-Jewish believers. The Bible never teaches the idea of “once saved, always saved.” Instead,  we can reject God’s gift of saving us as easily as we accept this gift. Now, we must be careful not to think that every time we sin we are no longer saved. We also must not think we cannot be saved unless we are without sin. But we also need to avoid thinking that we could never turn away from God again either. In the end, only the people who “continue to live in [God’s] kindness” (Romans 11:22, NIrV) will be saved.
