---
title:  All Israel Will Be Saved
date:   13/12/2017
---

`As shown in Romans 11:25–27, what powerful miracle does Paul say will take place among the Jews in the future?`

Christians have argued over the meaning of Romans 11:25–27 for hundreds of years. But a few facts are clear. These verses tell us that God is reaching out to the Jews. What Paul says here is the answer to the question he asked at the beginning of the chapter: “Did God turn his back on his people [the Jews]?” (Romans 11:1, NIrV). Paul’s answer is, Of course not! Paul gives two reasons why: (1) the spiritual blindness of the Jews (Romans 11:8) will last only a short time. The wording “ ‘eyes that could not see’ ” comes from the Greek word *porosis*. *Porosis* means “being hard.” The Jews’ “blindness” lasts only for a limited time. Indeed, the Jews’  blindness will end when “the right amount of people who are not Jews come to God” (Romans 11:25, NLV).

What does this verse mean? Many people believe this verse points to the time when the Good News about Jesus will have been preached everywhere. And the coming of Jesus will be near. Then many Jews will come to Jesus.

Another set of words that is difficult to understand is “all Israel will be saved” (Romans 11:26, NIrV). We must not think this wording means that every Jew will be saved at the end of time by a special command from God. Nowhere does the Bible teach universalism. Universalism is the idea that all humans will be saved. But Paul hoped that “some [of the Jews would] be saved” (Romans 11:14, NLV).

Ellen G. White shares her thoughts on Romans 11. She points to a time “when the work of announcing the Good News to all people of the earth is almost done.” At this time, “many of the Jews . . . will by faith receive Jesus as their Savior.”—The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 381, adapted.

Ellen G. White also says: “Many Jews will accept Jesus. These Jews will be made right with God. We will see God’s loving-favor save these Jews. The truth for these times must be brought to Jews everywhere. This truth will shine to the Jews as a bright lamp shines. Then many Jews will receive the truth. With great power, they will announce that God’s law does not change.”—*Evangelism [Spreading the Good News About Jesus Everywhere]*, page 578, adapted.
