---
title:  God's Loving-Kindness Toward Sinners
date:   14/12/2017
---

Paul’s love for his own people is clearly shown in Romans 11:25–27. It must have been very hard for Paul to have some of his own people fighting against him and against the truth about Jesus. But Paul hoped that many of his people would accept Jesus as the One whom God chose to save them.

`Read Romans 11:28–36. As shown in these verses, how does Paul show that God’s love is not just for the Jews? How does Paul describe the amazing and strange power of God’s grace?`

God’s grace, or loving-favor, is His gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. This power is strange because it is a mystery. We cannot fully under-stand how wonderful it is.

One important idea comes across clearly in Romans 11:28–36. God pours out His mercy, love, and grace on sinners. God made a plan to save all humans. God made this plan even before He made the earth. God’s plan to save everyone included His working with humans and nations.

`Ask God to help you understand Romans 11:31. What does this important idea should we take from this verse. What idea tell us about how we should witness to the Jews and to everyone we meet?`

No doubt the Christian church could have been kinder to the Jews. Then many more Jews might have accepted  Jesus. Many awful things happened in the church in the first few hundred years after Jesus. What were some of the awful things that happened? (1) The church fell away from the truth and (2) worship on the Seventh-day was changed to Sunday. These and other things did not make it easy for a Jew who felt led to follow Jesus.

It is very important for all Christians to understand that they must show to others the mercy God shows them. God shows us this mercy when we accept Jesus. We cannot be Christians if we do not show this same mercy to others (read Matthew 18:23–35).

`Is there someone you need to show mercy to? What if this person has done nothing to be worthy of your mercy? Why not show this person mercy anyway? After all, Jesus showed mercy to us.`
