---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/12/2017
---

“Israel failed to do the work that God gave them to do as a country. But there was a large number of the Jews who would be saved. At the time of the Savior’s first coming, there were loyal men and women who gladly accepted John the Baptist’s message. This message led these Jews to study again the special messages from God about His Chosen One. After this time, the early Christian church got started. And this church was made up of these loyal Jews who accepted Jesus of Nazareth as the One they had been waiting for.”—Ellen G. White, *The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders]*, pages 376, 377, adapted.

“There are many Jews who know a lot about the Bible. Saul of Tarsus was one of these Jews. These Jews will announce with wonderful power the truth that the law of God never changes and lasts forever. . . . God’s servants must work in faith for the Jews who have been hated for too long and have not been given enough attention or care. God’s plan of saving sinners will be shown to the Jews.

“God needs His messengers to take special interest in the Jewish people everywhere. The Old Testament truths will be blended with the truths of the New to explain God’s plan to save sinners. Then many of the Jews will understand God’s plan to save them as they never understood God’s plan before. This understanding will give new life to their spirits. They will see Jesus in the Old Testament. These Jews will see how clearly the New Testament explains the Old. Then the sleeping minds of these Jews will awake to the truth. They will see that Jesus is the Savior for the whole earth. Then many Jews will by faith accept Jesus as the One who pays the price for their sins and frees them from death.”—*The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders]*, page 381, adapted.  

**Discussion Questions**

`1. God's law is as important to many Jews as it is to Adventists. As we near the end of time, what part might the Jews have in the work of showing the importance of the law and the Sabbath to all people of the earth?`

`2. Of all the churches, why should the Adventist Church be the most successful in reaching out to Jews? What can you or your local church do to reach Jews?`

`3. What can we learn from the mistakes of Israel in Bible times? How can we avoid making their same mistakes?`
