---
title:  Dealing With Difficult Passages
date:  13/06/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Tim. 2:10–15, 1 Chron. 29:17, James 4:6–10, Gal. 6:9, Acts 17:11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “And consider that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation—as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you, as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things, in which are some things hard to understand, which untaught and unstable people twist to their own destruction, as they do also the rest of the Scriptures” (2 Peter 3:15, 16, NKJV).

When discussing the apostle Paul’s letters, Peter writes that in them, and in some other places in Scripture, there are “some things hard to understand” (2 Pet. 3:16, NKJV). These words are twisted or distorted by “ignorant and unstable people” (2 Pet. 3:16, NIV) to their own destruction. Peter does not say that all things are difficult to understand—but only that some are.

And we know that, don’t we? What honest reader of the Bible hasn’t come across texts that seem strange and difficult to understand? Certainly, at some point or another, we’ve all had this experience.

That’s why we will take a look this week, not so much at difficult texts per se, but at what might be the reasons for these challenges and how, as faithful seekers of truth from the Word of God, we can work through them. In the end, some of these challenging statements might never be solved this side of heaven. At the same time, the vast majority of texts in the Bible present no difficulty whatsoever, and there’s no need to allow the small number of difficult ones to weaken our trust in the reliability and authority of God’s Word as a whole.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, June 20._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The nature of one’s religious experience is revealed by the character of the books [one] chooses to read in [one’s] leisure moments. In order to have a healthy tone of mind and sound religious principles, the youth must live in communion with God through His Word. Pointing out the way of salvation through Christ, the Bible is our guide to a higher, better life. It contains the most interesting and the most instructive history and biography that were ever written. Those whose imagination has not become perverted by the reading of fiction will find the Bible the most interesting of books.—The Youth’s Instructor, October 9, 1902.

In turning from God’s word to feed on the writings of uninspired men, the mind becomes dwarfed and cheapened. It is not brought in contact with deep, broad principles of eternal truth. The understanding adapts itself to the comprehension of the things with which it is familiar, and in this devotion to finite things it is weakened, its power is contracted, and after a time it becomes unable to expand.—Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 41.

Prior to and at the first advent of Christ, religious teachers set forth strange ideas that were so mingled with portions of truth that they were full of deceptive power, and led souls away from God, although they still preserved the appearance of being His true worshipers. We find a similar condition of society in these last days, and those who depart from the faith, mingle with their belief diversities of human opinion. The Bible is brought into criticism. Is it because the Scriptures are inconsistent and contradictory that ministers differ so widely in their interpretation?—No, the trouble is that men are doing today as they did in the time of Christ, and are teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. Religious teachers are in the same condition as were the Pharisees of whom He said, “Ye are both ignorant of the Scriptures and of the power of God” (see Matthew 22:29). The very men to whom these words were spoken were presumed to teach and interpret the Scriptures to the people.—This Day With God, p. 164.

Some who are teaching present truth are so deficient in Bible knowledge that it is difficult for them to quote a text of Scripture correctly from memory. By blundering along in the awkward manner that they do, they sin against God. They wrest the Scriptures, and make the Bible say things that are not written therein.

Some think that an education or a thorough knowledge of the Scriptures is of little consequence if only a man has the Spirit. But God never sends His Spirit to sanction ignorance. He may and does pity and bless those who are so situated that it is impossible for them to obtain an education; and sometimes He condescends to make His strength perfect in their weakness. But it is the duty of such to study His word. A lack of knowledge in the sciences is no excuse for a neglect of Bible study; for the words of inspiration are so plain that the unlearned may understand them.—Gospel Workers, p. 105.