---
title:  Maybe High School Musical Was Right
date:  20/10/2018
---

**Introduction**: Mark 12:31; Eph. 4:2–4

In Mark 12:31 Christ says, “Love your neighbor as yourself” (NKJV). This completely contradicts what society tells us. We are taught that our love must be earned, but that idea isn’t presented to us in the Bible. In God’s Word we see that we are called to love everyone and treat them with the same patience and love that God shows us. I often find this task of loving to be easy, until someone is dishonest with me or hurts my feelings, and I’m sure many of us can relate. Loving others is easy when things are going well, but the second something goes wrong, we tend to run away from the task God has called us to carry out. We would rather sit alone with our pride, anger, and frustration than be loving and mend our relationships. To my surprise this reminded me of a teen movie I once said I would never talk about, but, here we are!

I was recently reminded of a movie titled High School Musical. Now before you stop reading, hear me out. I was very annoyed by this film as a teenager, but looking back at it, I was surprised to find a powerful message. In the film, characters who once disliked each other reconcile their differences by coming to the realization that we’re all in this together. As I reminisced about the memories of my sisters singing the song “We’re All in This Together” all day and night, I thought to myself that maybe Christ wants us to come to the same realization.

Ephesians 4:2 says, “Always be humble and gentle. Be patient with each other, making allowance for each other’s faults because of your love” (NLT). God created us all to be part of His eternal family, “one body and one Spirit” (verse 4, NLT), and He knows that we’ll never truly be united unless we practice being humble, gentle, patient, and, most important, loving. We constantly need to make an effort to keep ourselves united in peace. We all feel hurt, angry, ashamed, or betrayed at times. Sitting alone with our pain only allows Satan’s seeds of doubt to grow. By clinging to Christ and each other we are making an effort to keep ourselves united, and that is how we will be able to stand against all odds. As you study this week’s lessons, may you come to the realization that you cannot do this alone, and you weren’t called to. May you strengthen your bond with Christ as well as your fellow believers. May you do this all with a humble, gentle spirit and a patient, loving heart.

---

_Stephanie French, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_