---
title:  One
date:  21/10/2018
---

**Evidence**: Eph. 1:9, 10

Ephesus was a large city in the Roman province of Asia (modern-day Turkey). It was home to the temple of the fertility goddess Diana, so it was the pagan worship capital of the province. Paul wrote an epistle to the churches in Ephesus while he was under house arrest in Rome. Though Paul was imprisoned, the Romans could not muzzle the spread of the gospel that he preached. He sent this letter to the churches to encourage them in their faith and to emphasize the truth that all believers are united in Christ.

In Ephesians, the central message is Christ. “In Him we have redemption” (Eph. 1:7, NKJV) is the central truth that binds us as believers today to those across all the ages. In ancient culture, one could “ buy back” a person who was sold into slavery. Christ bought us back from the slavery of sin when He died on the cross. Paul reveals “the mystery of His will” (verse 9) to be the fact that “the Gentiles are fellow heirs . . . and partakers of the promise” (Eph. 3:6, NASB). A study of the Greek shows that “fellow heirs” (sunkleronomos) means “joint heirs” or “coheirs,” which means having an equal share in the inheritance. Though the Old Testament predicted that God’s grace would come to “all families of the earth” in Genesis 12:3, Gentiles having equality with the Jews was a secret that had never before been revealed. We Gentiles are captured under “all families of the earth,” and in Christ we can take part in the inheritance that was purchased with His blood. We are called to be “filled with the Spirit” (Ephesians 5:18) because as a drunkard is controlled by wine, so, too, the Spirit-filled person is controlled by the Spirit.

A church of Spirit-filled believers will have wives who choose to submit to their husbands in the same way that they submit to Christ; husbands who will lay down their lives for their wives; children who obey their parents; and employees who honor their employers; all because in everything these believers do, they choose to do for God. What a testimony to the world that would be! Christ covered us with His blood, and as such we became joint heirs in His inheritance of the eternal kingdom. Are we ready to partake? The equation is simple: us plus Christ equals one—one body, one eternal hope!

**React**

`Examine the idea of being “bought back” from the slavery of sin. How does this idea affect you in your everyday life?`

---

_Patrice Yorke, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_