---
title:  Unity With Christ
date:  23/10/2018
---

**Testimony**: Eph. 4:1–6

“In these first disciples was presented marked diversity. They were to be the world’s teachers, and they represented widely varied types of character. In order successfully to carry forward the work to which they had been called, these men, differing in natural characteristics and in habits of life, needed to come into unity of feeling, thought, and action. This unity it was Christ’s object to secure. To this end He sought to bring them into unity with Himself. The burden of His labor for them is expressed in His prayer to His Father, ‘That they all may be one; as Thou, Father, art in Me, and I in Thee, that they also may be one in Us;’ ‘that the world may know that Thou has sent Me, and hast loved them, as Thou hast loved Me.’ John 17:21, 23. His constant prayer for them was that they might be sanctified through the truth; and He prayed with assurance, knowing that an Almighty decree had been given before the world was made. He knew that the gospel of the kingdom would be preached to all nations for a witness; He knew that truth armed with the omnipotence of the Holy Spirit, would conquer in the battle with evil, and that the bloodstained banner would one day wave triumphantly over His followers.”1

“The Bible sets before us a model church. They are to be in unity with each other, and with God. When believers are united in Christ the living vine, the result is that they are one with Christ, full of sympathy and tenderness and love.”2

“The cause of division and discord in families and in the church is separation from Christ. To come near to Christ is to come near to one another. The secret of true unity in the church and in the family is not diplomacy, not management, not a superhuman effort to overcome difficulties—though there will be much of this to do—but union with Christ.”3

A large part of being united with Christ begins with learning how to be united with our brothers and sisters in Christ, and the greater the unity we experience with Christ, the more it will spill over into our other relationships. This is part of our journey in sanctification and perfection in Christ and something we can all strive to improve upon daily.

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 20, 21.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Pastoral Ministry, pp. 267, 268.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 179.</sup>

_Felipe Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_