---
title:  Submit to Love
date:  24/10/2018
---

**How-to**: Eph. 5:15–6:9

Love is the stuff dreams are made of, a topic consistently explored in art and entertainment. Yet the Bible paints a different picture of what love is. In fact, it lays out a blueprint for how to love those closest to us. In Ephesians 5:2, God calls us to be like Christ and to “walk in love.” First, we are to be mindful and careful about how we live. This means contemplating how we interact with others, how we express our emotions, and how we behave.

The Bible tells us to behave wisely, specifically warning us about drinking. It warns us that drunkenness is a gateway to evil, and many a young person has remained stuck in the “club” culture long after the age of innocence. Behaving wisely means contemplating the effects of our actions and their consequences.

Alternatively, behaving wisely also means being very careful about the way we treat others. Ephesians 5:21 tells us to submit to each other out of our reverence for Christ. Chapters 5 and 6 identify how to deal with relationships: wives and husbands, children and parents, and masters and slaves. These verses see much debate in the church, especially verse 22, which tells wives to submit to their husbands. However, we need to place emphasis on verse 21, “submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.” Here God tells us that if we take Him seriously, having respect for who He is, we will submit to each other.

What does it mean to submit? The Oxford English Dictionary1 defines the word as “[to] accept or yield to a superior force or to the authority or will of another person” or “[to] subject [yourself] to a particular process, treatment, or condition.” The verb submit implies humbling ourselves and putting one’s fate into another’s hands. It implies having respect for and trust in another person. As such, the word demands much more from us. To submit we must cultivate relationships that allow us to have faith in and respect for others. It would be extremely difficult to trust, have faith in, and ultimately submit to a person we don’t know or respect.

**React**

`1. Why do you think submission is an important aspect of love?`

`2. Why is submitting to one another a challenging command, even for Christians?`

`3. How do you personally submit to God?`

---

<sup>1. Oxford English Dictionary, (Oxford University Press, 2017), s.v. “submit,” https://en.oxford dictionaries.com/definition/submit.</sup>

_Shauna Spence, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_