---
title:  Unity in Diversity
date:  25/10/2018
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 1:3–14

From the time of the Old Testament, diversity has always been a part of the body of Christ. We know the stories of Ruth, Rahab, and other men and women who not only became Israelites but are also listed in the faith chapter of Hebrews. As modern-day Israel, we as Seventh-day Adventists still enjoy a diverse church, one in which all nations, tongues, and people can be united “under one Lord, one faith, one baptism” (Eph. 4:5). Yet this diversity has not always been a unifying point for our church.

In his letter to the Ephesians, Paul speaks about the wisdom and knowledge that Christ gave to us so that through this understanding we can be united (Eph. 1:3–14). The point of unification for the church based on Christ’s structure was not related to cultural background, customs, skin color, education, or any other reason that is related to us as humanity. The only basis for unity was the knowledge of the gospel. This same message is the only one that will take us as a church through to the end of the ages. It is quite unfortunate that even today, there are still some countries and some conferences within the Seventh-day Adventist Church that are segregated by ethnicity, and others still believe that interracial marriages can cause problems. Yet when we look at the Bible, Boaz and Ruth were from two different cultures and two different social backgrounds. They came together under one “heavenly” culture and became a part of the lineage of Jesus Christ Himself. The same can be said of Rahab, the harlot, who married an Israelite.

As the body of Christ, we are admonished by Paul to look to the importance of the unifying factor of Christ’s message, which is His power to “bring unity to all things in heaven and on earth under Christ” (Eph. 1:10, NIV). Asia Minor had people of all ethnicities. Even on the Day of Pentecost, many different individuals were there to receive the message of the gospel. Diversity is a huge blessing to our church. It brings flavor to our worship, and it tells the world that we can have one mind even though we are different.

**React**

`1. How does cultural diversity play a role in witnessing and sharing the gospel?`

`2. What are the positive benefits of being able to be united, yet different?`

`3. How has your interaction with various cultures improved your personal life?`

---

_Elaine Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_