---
title:  Family Reunion
date:  26/10/2018
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 12:3–8

**Conclude**

Paul beautifully compares the body of Christ to a human body, in which each part has a specific role and a vital function for the body as a whole. In order for the whole body to work properly, all the members need to work in harmony, each executing its functions. The same is true for the body of Christ, the church. The church is composed of many types of people from a variety of backgrounds, with all kinds of abilities and gifts. Most of the time these “differences” in abilities and gifts can easily divide people, but despite these differences it is important for all of us to keep in mind that there is one essential point in common—our faith in Christ. On this essential truth, the church finds unity. When we put ourselves away and find our identities in Christ and when the Holy Spirit of God resides within us, we will become united and live as if we were all part of a big spiritual family. Heaven will feel like a massive family reunion.

**Consider**

- Photographing a group of people gathering in any activity and then analyzing how these people interact with each other and what the common denominator is that brings them together.
- Researching the root meaning of the word unity and presenting your findings to your Sabbath School class.
- Organizing an activity in which the main purpose or goal will be accomplished only if the whole group cooperates.
- Meditating on the most Spirit-filled event that Peter witnessed and took part in—Pentecost—and how we can witness and experience the same event in our church today.
- Observing in nature how ants work together to prepare for winter. Reflect on the idea that they might have a family reunion every year in the wintertime, celebrating their unity in hard work.


**Connect**

1 Corinthians 12; 1 Peter 1:10, 11 Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, “Co-Ordination of Home and Church,” p. 548.

---

_Fernanda Perez, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_