---
title:  The Atheist Who Believed
date:   11/01/2026
---

**Read This Lesson’s Passage:** Genesis 1, 2

### inTro

**The Atheist Who Believed**

Known for his intellectual honesty, prolific writing, and vigorous debates, British philosopher Antony Flew was once admired by academics and atheists around the world. At age fifteen, Flew had concluded there was no God. After studying philosophy, he became a professor at Oxford and several other universities in England. During this time, Flew became well known for his rigorous academic atheism.

In 2004, when he was in his early eighties, Flew made a startling revelation that sent shockwaves through the philosophical and scientific communities—shockwaves that still reverberate today. During an interview with Dr. Gary Habermas,<sup>1</sup> Flew revealed that he now believed in the existence of an intelligent Designer.

Following this revelation, Flew was labeled “an aging, fading scholar who has lost almost all of his acuity and is severely memory-impaired.”<sup>2</sup> He faced accusations of delusional thinking and rejecting science. One critic even wrote, “Flew has, sadly, lost it.”<sup>3</sup> Despite the backlash, Flew tenaciously defended his new beliefs. He reflected, “I have been denounced by [my former colleagues] for stupidity, betrayal, senility, and everything you can think of, and none of them have read a word that I have ever written.”<sup>4</sup> What had Flew done that was so upsetting? He simply changed his mind. Once a highly influential atheist, Flew became one of the people he had formerly mocked—a believer in God. His former colleagues and fans were shocked, appalled, and even infuriated.

What changed Antony Flew’s mind about God? Flew himself stated, “Although I was once sharply critical of the argument to design, I have since come to see that, when correctly formatted, this argument constitutes a persuasive case for the existence of God.”<sup>5</sup> Flew was convinced by the teleological argument, which defends the existence of God based on evidence of design in the physical world. Flew cited the complexity and order of the universe as significant factors in his shift from atheism to a belief in God. In his book, Flew explains that advancements in science, particularly in the fields of physics and biology, led him to conclude that an intelligent Designer was the best explanation for the complexity and order observed in the universe.

A discussion of intelligent design encompasses more than facts. We are actually exploring the very essence of God’s heart. His creation is a reflection of His character—where order, beauty, complexity, and love are intricately woven into the fabric of the universe. We see evidence of intelligent design in nature, but the creation story completes the narrative, revealing the purposeful intention behind it.

Genesis introduces God as the Creator behind all matter, space, and time. The Bible doesn’t argue for His existence; it simply proclaims it. Scripture deems it the most obvious truth in the universe . Philosophically put, if there was nothing in the universe at one point, then there would still be nothing in the universe. The fact that the universes exists indicates that there was something or someone who caused the universe to come into existence.

In this week’s lesson, we will delve into the teleological argument, or the argument from design, as a compelling reason to believe in the Creator God of Scripture and to gain deeper insight into the heart of this Divine Designer.

### Apologetics Challenge

Why do so many people simply not believe in the God of Scripture?

### inScribe

Write out Genesis 1:1–5 from the translation of your choice. Read Genesis 1, 2 and write down all the ways God’s character is seen in His creation.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Antony Flew and Gary R. Habermas, “My Pilgrimage from Atheism to Theism: A Discussion between Antony Flew and Gary Habermas,” _Philosophia Christi_ 6, no. 2 (January 2004): 199, https://doi.org/10.5840/pc20046224.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> P.Z. Meyers, “Roy Varghese and the Exploitation of Antony Flew,” _ScienceBlogs_, November 4, 2007, https://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2007/11/04/roy-varghese-and-the-exploitat.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Meyers, “Roy Varghese and the Exploitation of Antony Flew.”

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Antony Flew and Roy Abraham Varghese, _There Is a God: How the World’s Most Notorious Atheist Changed His Mind_ (HarperOne, 2007), 2.