---
title:  inQuire
date:   17/01/2026
---

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to study this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Creation and God’s character:**

1. What are the various attributes of God’s character that you see portrayed in the story of creation from Genesis 1 and 2? _Review this week’s inGest to contrast the God of the Bible with the character of pagan deities._
2. Macroevolution is a common theory that life evolved over a span of millions of years, requiring mass death and extinction. How does the concept of humanity arising from macroevolution contradict God’s character? _Consider what Rom. 6:23 says about the timing of death after the entrance of sin._
3. In Psalm 8, King David is overwhelmed by the grandeur of the universe and the supreme value God places on humanity. How do you think God might respond to his question in verse 4: “What is man that You are mindful of him?”

`Personal reflection: What do you personally see in nature that points to a Designer?`

**Creation and faith:**

1. Some Christians are skeptical of the Genesis account of creation. How did Jesus affirm the Genesis account of creation? _Compare Matt. 19:4 with Gen. 1:27._
2. What are some causes of atheism in our world today?

`Personal reflection: What questions can you ask people who have doubts or who ask skeptical questions about God?`

**Creation and worship:**

1. In what ways can recognizing God as the Creator deepen your relationship with Him? _Read Isa. 45:18, 19._
2. How does knowing God as the Creator enhance your awe, reverence, and worship of Him? _Read Rev. 4:11; 14:7._
3. How does the Bible identifying Jesus as the Creator of all things make God feel closer to you? _Read John 1:3 and Col. 1:16, 17. See this week’s inVite for a deeper understanding._

`Personal reflection: How does being in nature help you connect with God?`

### Key takeaways to remember

- The story of Creation reveals a powerful, loving God who is worthy of our worship.
- In the Bible, humans are the crowning achievement of the creation of this world.
- An intelligent Designer best explains the complexity and order of the universe.