---
title: 'No Limits To What We Can Do For God'
date: 01/08/2020
---

### Read for this week's lesson
1 Corinthians 12:12, 13, 18–22; Mark 13:34; 1 Corinthians 12:7; 1 Corinthians 1:4–9.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “All the gifts are produced by one and the same Spirit. He gives gifts to each person, just as he decides” (1 Corinthians 12:11, NIrV).

GOD COMMANDS US to tell people about Him (Acts 1:8; Isaiah 43:10). Sharing Jesus is not a special spiritual gift that only a few people have. God asks all Christians to share the message about the Cross.

The Bible uses different word pictures to talk about our work as witnesses for God. Jesus says we must be the same as “ ‘the light that shines for the world [all the people on the earth] to see’ ” (Matthew 5:14, ERV). Paul tells us that “we have been sent to speak for Christ” (2 Corinthians 5:20, ERV). Peter says we “are a chosen group of people. You are the King’s [Jesus’] religious leaders” (1 Peter 2:9, NLV). This same God who commands us to tell people about Him also helps us to do it. God gives spiritual gifts to each believer. God does not choose people with a lot of education. He educates the ones He calls to serve Him. God freely gives salvation to all people who believe. In the same way, God gives His spiritual gifts freely to everyone.

So, we must give ourselves fully to God. Then there will not be any limit to what we can do for God. “There is no limit to what a person can do when he puts self away. But first he must allow the Spirit to work on his heart. And he or she must live fully for God.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 159, adapted. This week, we will study all that we can do when God’s Spirit lives in us.
