---
title: 'Different Spiritual Gifts'
date: 02/08/2020
---

Have you thought about how different Jesus’ followers were? They had different personalities and spiritual gifts. But this was not a bad thing. It made the church stronger. Matthew was a tax collector. He was very careful with counting money. Then there was Peter who often talked before he thought about what he should say. Peter also was a natural leader. John also talked without thinking. At the same time, he had a soft heart. Andrew was a people person. He was always aware of what was going on around him. Andrew also cared deeply about people’s feelings. Thomas asked questions, and he often doubted. Each of these followers had different personalities and gifts. But God used each one in a powerful way to tell people about Him.

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12, 13, 18–22. What do we learn from these verses about the need for people with different gifts in the church?`

God loves to take people with different skills and talents and give them gifts to work in His church. The church is the body of Jesus Christ. The body of Christ is not a group of people who think the same way. The church is not a club with people who all come from the same place and act the same way. The church is a living group of people with different gifts. This group is joined as one in their love for Jesus and the Bible. The church wants to share Jesus’ love and truth with other people (Romans 12:4; 1 Corinthians 12:12). The members of Christ’s body have different gifts. Each person is important. The church needs all its members to work together. Then the church will be healthy. The eyes, ears, and nose have different jobs. But the body needs all its parts. In the same way, all gifts are necessary to the church too (1 Corinthians 12:21, 22).

Think about the human body and how it works. Even the smallest parts have an important role, right? Think about our eyelashes. What if we did not have them? Then dust will hurt our eyes. Awful things can happen to our eyes when we have no eyelashes. We may become blind. In the same way, there may be a church member who is not very important in other people’s eyes. But this person is a necessary part of Christ’s body. The Holy Spirit has given this person a gift or gifts. When we use our spiritual gifts fully for God, then each of us can help God save other people.
