---
title: 'God: The Giver Of All Good Gifts'
date: 03/08/2020
---

1 Corinthians 12:11, 18; Ephesians 4:7, 8; and James 1:17 tell us that God is the Giver of all gifts. “Every perfect gift” (James 1:17, ERV) comes from God. So, we can trust that God will give to us the spiritual gifts that are the best ones for our personalities. God will best use our skills to serve His holy cause and bring glory to His name.

`Read Mark 13:34 and 1 Corinthians 12:11. As these verses show us, who does God give spiritual gifts to?`

The Bible is clear. God has special work for each one of us. He wants us to share the Good News about Jesus with other people. We see this lesson when we read Jesus’ picture story about the house owner in Mark 13. The house owner puts his servants in charge of his house and then leaves. Each servant has a job to do (Mark 13:34). So, we see from this picture story that God gives each person a special job to do in His church. God also gives spiritual gifts to each of us for that work. When does that happen? When we give our lives fully to Him and become baptized members of His body, the church. Then the Holy Spirit gives gifts to us so that we can serve the church and share God with people on the earth.

In 1903, Ellen G. White wrote a letter to a man. She encouraged him to use the gifts that God gave him to serve God. She writes, “We are all members of God’s family. God gives us talents. We are responsible for what we do with them. Maybe our talent is big. Or maybe it is small. Whatever it is, we must use our talent to serve God. We also must accept that God gives gifts to other people too. We must let every person use his gifts for God.

“God gives us gifts of the mind, body, and spirit. We must not ever think that any of the gifts we get from God are not important.”—Letter 260, December 2, 1903, adapted.

`Read Acts 10:36–38; Matthew 3:16, 17; and Acts 2:38–42. What do these verses teach us about the promise of the Holy Spirit when we are baptized?`

God poured the Spirit on Jesus at His baptism. The Spirit got Jesus ready for His work on earth. In the same way, God promises us the Holy Spirit at our baptism. God deeply wants us to believe that He will keep His promise.
