---
title: 'God’s Plan For Spiritual Gifts'
date: 04/08/2020
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:7 and Ephesians 4:11–16. Why does God give spiritual gifts to each Christian? What is God’s plan for these gifts?`

God gives spiritual gifts to the church for several important reasons. He gives them to the church to make it stronger to do His work. God gives His gifts to the church to join the church as one so that it can finish His work on earth. The Bible writers give us examples of the spiritual gifts that God gives to His church. These gifts include helping others, serving, preaching, teaching, encouraging, and giving. The Bible also tells us about the spiritual gifts of feeding and being kind to guests, showing mercy, being helpful, and being cheerful. These are only a few of the gifts the Bible talks about. For a more complete list, read Romans 12 and 1 Corinthians 12.

Maybe you wonder about the connection between spiritual gifts and natural talents. How are these two things different? The Holy Spirit gives each Christian spiritual gifts to help him or her do God’s work in the church and on earth. Spiritual gifts also may include natural talents that are made holy by the Holy Spirit and used to serve Jesus. All natural talents come from God. But not all natural talents are used to serve Jesus.

“In the picture story, we read about special gifts. Not all special gifts come from the Holy Spirit. Special gifts may include gifts and skills that we are born with or that God gives us. Whatever we have, we must use all our gifts to serve Jesus. When we become Jesus’ followers, we give ourselves to Jesus. We give Him all that we are and have. Jesus takes the gifts we give Him. He makes them holy. Then He gives them back to us. Now we must use these gifts to give Him glory and bless other humans.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 328, adapted.

Also, God gave special gifts to the church, including the gift of prophecy. The gift of prophecy is God’s special way of communicating with His church by His chosen messengers. God’s special gifts also include gifts of leadership. These gifts include being pastors, elders, and teachers, who help members grow strong so that they can serve God (read Ephesians 4:11, 12). Leaders help all members learn what their gifts are. Then they teach members to use these gifts to make the church strong.
