---
title: 'Discovering Your Gifts'
date: 05/08/2020
---

`Compare 1 Corinthians 1:4–9 with 2 Corinthians 1:20–22. What do these verses teach us about the promises of God and spiritual gifts right before Jesus comes back?`

God promises that His church will show all the gifts of the Holy Spirit just before Jesus comes back. God’s promises are sure. He gave us the Holy Spirit in our hearts to lead us into an understanding of the gifts we have from Him. It is God who gives the gifts. By His Spirit, God shows these gifts to us.

`If we want to learn more about our gifts, what does God invite us to do? For the answer, read Luke 11:13; James 1:5; and Matthew 7:7.`

We get the gifts of the Spirit when we give ourselves to God. Then we must ask Him to show to us the gifts He gave us. Our hearts must be empty of self and pride. Our number one wish must be to serve Jesus with our whole hearts. Then His Spirit will tell us what spiritual gifts He has for us. “Jesus’ followers gave their lives fully to God in faith and in prayer. Then God poured His Spirit on them. In a special way, God gave heaven’s gifts to Jesus’ followers at that time. . . . The gifts are already ours in Jesus. But if we want to have them, we must first accept God’s Spirit.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 327, adapted.

God gives us spiritual gifts (read 1 Corinthians 12:4–6) so that we may serve Him more fully. A ministry is the special work that God gives us to do for Him. He gives us the spiritual gifts to do this ministry. Activities or special tasks are the jobs that God gives us that allow us to use our gifts. Spiritual gifts do not come fully grown. We must use them. As we use them, they grow. The Holy Spirit will show you the work He wants you to do. Pray that He will lead you to a ministry where you can use your gifts in an activity, or task, that will lead other people to Jesus.

`What are your spiritual gifts? More important, how can you make your gifts grow stronger in the Lord’s work?`
