---
title: 'Growing Our Gifts'
date: 06/08/2020
---

`Read the picture story about the talents in Matthew 25:14–30. What idea stands out the most to you in this story? Why does God praise the first two servants but not the last one? What does this picture story teach us about using our talents? Pay careful attention to Matthew 25:29 as you answer the last question.`

The master “ ‘decided how much each servant would be able to care for’ ” (Matthew 25:15, ERV). Then he gives each servant a different amount. One servant gets five talents. Another servant gets two talents, and another servant gets one talent. Each servant has a choice about how to use the talents that he or she gets. It is important to see that what they are given does not belong to them. It belongs to someone else who puts them in charge of it.

The master is not interested in who has the best or the most talents. He cares only about what each person does with the talent or talents he got.

In 2 Corinthians 8:12 (ICB), Paul says, “If you want to give, your gift will be accepted. Your gift will be judged by what you have, not by what you do not have.” In God’s eyes, the most important thing is not what we have or how much we have of it. What is important is what we do with it.

God praised the first two servants because they show their faith in the way they use their talents. So, their talents grow as they use them. The “evil” servant does not use the talent that the master gives him. So, his talent does not grow. It is an everlasting truth that “when we serve God, the work we do connects us to God and to other humans.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 326, adapted. The servant who had no faith in God lost his chance to serve. Then he also lost his talent, as well.

We must use the gifts God gives us. Then we will bring glory to His name. Our gifts will grow too. How can you discover what gifts God gave you? Empty your heart of all pride. Then ask God to show you where He wants you to serve Him. As God shows you His plan, start working for Him! Your gifts will grow as you use them. Then you will find joy in serving Him.

`Think about this story and what lessons it teaches you about your life. What does this story say to you about what you are doing for God with the gifts He gave you?`
