---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   07/08/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Talents,” pages 325–365, in Christ’s Object Lessons.

We need a correct understanding of the Bible teaching about spiritual gifts. Then we will have peace and agreement in the church. We also must understand that each one of us has value in God’s eyes. Every member of the church is necessary for finishing God’s work on earth. That is why God gives every member a spiritual gift to serve Him.

“God gives everyone work to do for Him. He gives each of His servants special gifts or talents. ‘He decided how much each servant would be able to care for. The man gave one servant five bags of money. He gave another servant two bags. And he gave a third servant one bag’ [Matthew 25:15, ERV]. Every servant is responsible for some amount. God decides how much to give us because of the skills we have. God does not have favorites. He does not give more to one person and less to another because He likes one person more than another person. He gives us talents that match our skills. He expects us to use our skills for Him.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, page 282, adapted.

Remember, God gives us the gifts of the Spirit for His glory, not our own. God gives them to us to bring glory to His name and to help us finish His work on this earth.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. God gives each one of us gifts. How will this make your church better? How does this idea help us to become better workers for God?`

`2. Have the gifts of another church member been a blessing to your life? If yes, share with the class how you have been blessed. Also, share with the class how you discovered your own spiritual gifts. What do you think your gifts are? How do you use them to bless other people?`

`3. Our spiritual gifts grow as we use them. Look back over your own life. How have your gifts grown as you used them for God? At the same time, have you used your gifts to serve God as much as you should have?`
