---
title:  I Want to See God
date:  20/09/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 33:12—34:35

**I Want to See God**

The desire to see the divine is almost universal. Although the supernatural is beyond the reach of our finite, mortal bodies, humanity has a strong yearning to see what is beyond. Even the modern secular world desires something greater. Astronomers comb through space for worlds that might support life as we know it here on earth and attempt to listen to deep space sounds, hoping to hear something intelligible. For Christians, however, the hope is to one day see God face-to-face.

In this closing study of the book of Exodus, we will explore what it means to hope for a small glimpse of God. What might He look like? Can we even see Him? In this lesson, we find Moses holding tightly to God. God had told him to lead the people away from Sinai, but Moses didn’t want to go without Him. God finally promised Moses that His presence would go with him (Exod. 33:17). Moses must have been overwhelmed at God’s remarkable acknowledgment of his special relationship with Him. He burst out with a singular expression of human longing: “Please, show me Your glory!” (v. 18).

Moses had talked with God for months, perhaps for even over a year by that time, beginning with the first conversation at the very same mountain back when he was still herding his father-in-law’s sheep (Exod. 3:1–4). He had performed God’s miracles in Egypt, acting as His spokesperson to Pharaoh. He had led the Israelites through the wilderness so they too could meet with God at this sacred mountain. He had spent the last forty days receiving the law of God written on the stone tablets, and he had just interceded for God’s people after their lapse into idolatry. After all that, he had one final request: “Show me Your glory!”

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 33:12–18 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `