---
title:  Face on Fire
date:  21/09/2025
---

#### inGest

God understood Moses’ desire to experience His presence, but He warned Moses that no sinful human can see His face and live. That said, however, He compromised: “Here is a place by Me, and you shall stand on the rock. So it shall be, while My glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and will cover you with My hand while I pass by. Then I will take away My hand, and you shall see My back; but My face shall not be seen” (Exod. 33:21–23).

Why would God say Moses could see His back but not His face? The book of Genesis helps provide a possible explanation in the story of God creating humans in His image (Gen. 1:26–28). This text is somewhat mysterious. Humans are like God in some amazing ways, one of which seems to be related to how we look. If we look at the Bible, whenever people see God in some way, He consistently looks like a human. Perceiving God with human traits is so astounding that Bible scholars throughout the ages have typically referred to these sightings of God as simply anthropomorphic visions.

In 2009, a Japanese scientist conducted a fascinating experiment demonstrating that humans emit minute amounts of visible light—not light waves from the thermal spectrum but light our eyes could see if they were sensitive enough. Unfortunately, our bodies don’t give off enough photons to allow our eyes to perceive the light. We can’t know for certain, but perhaps this bioluminescence is the remnants of what Ellen White described as Adam and Eve’s original covering of light before they sinned. Pictures in the online news reports of this experiment show that we radiate much more light from our faces than anywhere else on our bodies. Remember, Moses’ face glowed when he descended from the mountain after spending forty days with God (Exod. 34:29–35). And if Moses was more accurately reflecting God’s image after being in His physical presence, then we can imagine God having a bright face. This would explain why God told Moses that he could see His back but not His face. All of this suggests that God gave humans the gift of being like Him in some very amazing ways, but that today, only a very faint reflection of that original glory remains.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 33:12—34:35. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What do you think gave Moses the courage to ask for something that perhaps no sinner had ever before asked for?`

`What’s the boldest thing you’ve ever asked of God?`