---
title:  The Image of God
date:  22/09/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Moses wanted to see God’s glory, to visibly behold his Creator. However, God wanted Moses to see something more important: “I will make all My goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion” (Exod. 33:19). What Moses and the Hebrews needed most was to understand God’s character. God understands our frailty and weakness toward sin, yet His love is eternal. He wants us to know that He is a God of grace and compassion. In the context of Israel’s great sin with the golden calf, they especially needed God’s mercy.

God’s desire has always been to restore His image in His people, which most importantly has to do with character. So, when Moses again climbed the mountain to see God, God hid him in a cave and passed by, proclaiming, “The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children’s children to the third and the fourth generation” (34:6, 7). Overcome by God’s greatness, “Moses made haste and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshiped” (v. 8). Then, in response to Moses’ further pleas for His pardon and continued presence, God covenanted to further display His power by “marvels such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation” (v. 10), that all nations would know that He is God.

In reflecting on the book of Exodus, we remember many stories that challenge us. God miraculously proclaimed and demonstrated His power against the Egyptian gods. The Red Sea parted to let an entire nation escape. Food and water miraculously appeared in the desert day after day. The events described in this book are so incredible that some Jews and Christians today doubt their historicity. However, if we dismiss these stories as unbelievable, we will be setting aside some of the greatest truths that we need to know. We would miss the reality that there is a God who loves us despite our sinfulness. We would miss the great truth that forgiveness is available through God’s sanctuary. We would miss the fact that God wants to live with us, to be our neighbor. Finally, we would miss the amazing truth that we reflect the very image of God.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can understanding that God has made us just like Himself help us realize our true value as individuals?`