---
title:  Seeing God
date:  24/09/2025
---

#### inVite

Seeing God might be the experience that Christians desire most. Jesus came to earth to make that possible, to pull back the curtain and open the way for people to see what had been hidden for so long. We find Jesus speaking with His disciples in John 14 as He prepared to go to the cross. As He faced the end of His earthly ministry, He was very concerned for His disciples. He wanted to prepare them for the traumatic hours and days that were just ahead, but He was limited in what He could say. Their reality was not His reality. Their own limited knowledge and experiences shaped their understanding of the world. So, He began with a word of encouragement: “Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in God, believe also in Me. In My Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also” (John 14:1–3).

Despite His quickly approaching departure, Jesus told them they could continue to follow Him: “And where I go you know, and the way you know” (v. 4). Jesus wanted to give them a chance to engage, and Thomas took the bait. Immediately, he asked Jesus the predictable question, “We do not know where you are going, and how can we know the way?” (v. 5). With the disciples interested, Jesus explained more. As in the conversation with Nicodemus, Jesus drifted back and forth between metaphor and reality: “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me. If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and from now on you know Him and have seen Him” (vv. 6, 7). Jesus was talking about the same thing Moses wanted—to see God.

Phillip asked for more. “Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us” (v. 8). Then Jesus responded, “Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father” (v. 9). The disciples had been living and walking with God for over three years, but they thought He was just a man. Everything that was hoped for in Exodus was realized in Jesus. In Jesus, we too can see God.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 33:12—34:35 again and look for Jesus.`

`What keeps us from seeing God more fully?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`