---
title:  Near to God
date:  25/09/2025
---

#### inSight

“After the transgression of Israel in making the golden calf, Moses again goes to plead with God in behalf of his people. He has some knowledge of those who have been placed under his care; he knows the perversity of the human heart and realizes the difficulties with which he must contend. But he has learned from experience that in order to have an influence with the people he must first have power with God. The Lord reads the sincerity and unselfish purpose of the heart of his servant and condescends to commune with this feeble mortal, face to face, as a man speaks with a friend. Moses casts himself and all his burdens fully upon God and freely pours out his soul before him. The Lord does not reprove His servant, but stoops to listen to his supplications.

“Moses has a deep sense of his unworthiness and his unfitness for the great work to which God has called him. He pleads with intense earnestness that the Lord will go with him. The answer comes, ‘My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest.’ [See Exodus 33:12–23.] But Moses does not feel that he can stop here. He has gained much, but he longs to come still nearer to God, to obtain a stronger assurance of His abiding presence. He has carried the burden of Israel; he has borne an overwhelming weight of responsibility; when the people sinned, he suffered keen remorse, as though he himself were guilty; and now there presses upon his soul a sense of the terrible results should God leave Israel to hardness and impenitence of heart. They would not hesitate to kill Moses, and through their own rashness and perversity they would soon fall a prey to their enemies and thus dishonor the name of God before the heathen. Moses presses his petition with such earnestness and fervency that the answer comes: ‘I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in My sight, and I know thee by name.’

“Now, indeed, we would expect the prophet to cease pleading; but no, emboldened by his success, he ventures to come still nearer to God, with a holy familiarity which is almost beyond our comprehension. He now makes a request which no human being ever made before: ‘I beseech Thee, show me Thy glory.’ What a petition to come from a finite, mortal man! But is he repulsed? does God reprove him for presumption? No; we hear the gracious words: ‘I will make all My goodness pass before thee’ ” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4 [1881], 531–533).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, in what ways do you want to draw closer to God?`

`What are practical ways you can better reflect God’s character to people at work, school, and home?`

`Review your memory verse. How did it apply to your life this week?`