---
title:  Jesus, Our Powerful King
date:   08/07/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 1:15–23; Ephesians 1:16, 17; 1 Corinthians 15:20–22; Ephesians 6:12.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “And you will know that God’s power [strength] is very great [mighty] for us who believe. That power is the same as the great strength God used to raise [wake up] Christ from death and put him at his right side in heaven” (Ephesians 1:19, 20, ICB).

Most humans want something more powerful than they already own. Many people want faster, more powerful cars. Devel Motors makes powerful cars. They came out with a car named the Devel 16. The Devel 16 is a very fast car with a powerful engine. Then there’s the Peterbilt company. This company built a truck with three jet engines! The truck can do a quarter mile in only 6.5 seconds. The truck also can go up to a speed of 376 miles per hour before its two parachutes unfold and spread open.

Paul prays that Christians in Ephesus will understand that God is the One who gives them strength and might. This strength comes from Jesus. Jesus sends His Holy Spirit to His followers to give them His strength. This strength is more powerful than any jet engine or magic.

Four Bible truths in the New Testament help us to understand that God is very powerful. These four Bible truths are: (1) Jesus wakes up from the dead; (2) Jesus sits next to God in heaven; (3) God gives Jesus control over everything; and (4) God makes Jesus the Leader of the church (Ephesians 1:19–23). God does so much to help us.