---
title:  Prayer and Thanksgiving
date:   09/07/2023
---

Paul tells the Ephesians that he is happy to hear that they are growing strong in their faith in God. Their love for each other grows stronger, too. Paul also tells the Ephesians that he prays for them.

`Compare Paul’s two prayer reports in Ephesians 1:15–23 and Ephesians 3:14–21. What same ideas do you see in both reports?`

Paul’s reports show us that our prayers should be filled with thanksgiving. God gives us many blessings. We should thank Him for that. We must do our best to see God at work during the hard times in our lives. We must praise God for His mercy and strength because He can change our lives and make them better (Ephesians 1:20–23). We must thank God for blessing the people in our lives, too. Prayer teaches us to praise God and to be thankful to Him for all His many blessings.

Paul tells the Ephesians, “I always remember you in my prayers and thank God for you” (Ephesians 1:16, ERV; also, read Philippians 1:3, 4; 1 Thessalonians 1:2; and 1 Thessalonians 5:16–18).

What does Paul mean when he tells Christians, “Never stop praying” (1 Thessalonians 5:17, ERV)? For sure, Paul isn’t saying that we must pray and do nothing else! What Paul means is that we must thank God for everything He does for us. We must take all our problems and worries to God. We must ask His advice. We must not be strangers to God. We must choose to be His children and to allow Him to lead us.

Too often we pray to God only when we are in trouble or when we need something. Paul teaches us a different idea about prayer. Paul prays for the Christians in Ephesus. Paul thanks God for them (Ephesians 1:16; compare Ephesians 1:3–14) and asks God to help them (Ephesians 1:17–23; compare Ephesians 3:14–21). Paul believes that prayer is an important part of being a Christian. Paul’s verses in Ephesians 1:15–23 and Ephesians 3:14–21 invite us to pray more. When we pray, Paul encourages us to ask God to help other people.

`Why is it important always to thank God in prayer for the things He gives you?`