---
title:  The Wisdom that Comes From the Spirit
date:   10/07/2023
---

> <p></p>
> “I have not stopped thanking God for you. I always remember you in my prayers. I pray to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is the glorious [wonderful and mighty] Father. I keep asking him to give you the wisdom and understanding that come from the Holy Spirit. I want you to know God better” (Ephesians 1:16, 17, NIrV).

Paul says that God gave His Spirit to the Ephesian Christians when they accepted Jesus (Ephesians 1:13, 14). Now Paul prays for God to bless the Ephesians with the Spirit again. Paul asks God to give the Ephesians spiritual wisdom. Then they will understand more about Jesus (Ephesians 1:17).

`Paul prays that the Holy Spirit will give special understanding to the Ephesian Christians. What three topics does Paul want them to understand? Read Ephesians 1:17–19 for the answer.`

Paul prays that the Ephesian Christians will “know the hope that God has chosen to give us” (Ephesians 1:18, ICB). Paul also prays that the Ephesians will remember the things God already did to save them (Ephesians 1:3–9, 11–13). Paul wants the Ephesians to know about the wonderful future God plans for them, too (Ephesians 1:10, 14).

Paul says, “I pray that you will know that the blessings God has promised his holy people are rich and glorious [wonderful]” (Ephesians 1:18, ICB). In this verse, Paul is remembering the Old Testament idea that God’s children are His special treasure (Deuteronomy 9:29; Deuteronomy 32:9; Zechariah 2:12; compare Ephesians 1:11). God wants the Ephesians to know that God has treasures for them, too. At the same time, Paul wants his readers to remember that they are God’s special treasure. Paul wants the Ephesians to understand their worth in God’s eyes.

Paul prays for the Ephesians to “know God’s great power. It [God’s power] can’t be compared with anything else. His power works for us who believe” (Ephesians 1:19, NIrV). Paul knows the Holy Spirit will bring this understanding to God’s people. In all his prayers, Paul wants the Ephesians to know in a personal way everything that God gives them in Jesus.