---
title:  Waking Up From the Dead with Jesus
date:   11/07/2023
---

Now we come to the final part of Paul’s prayer report in Ephesians 1:20–23. In these verses, Paul hopes that the Holy Spirit will help his readers understand that God is very powerful. Paul wants his readers to know what God has done for them. Paul starts by talking about two things that show that God is very powerful: (1) the time when Jesus woke up from the dead and (2) the time when Jesus sat next to God on His throne in heaven (Ephesians 1:20).

`How does Jesus’ waking up from the dead show us that God is very powerful? Read Ephesians 1:20; 1 Corinthians 15:20–22; Philippians 3:8–11; Hebrews 13:20, 21; 1 Peter 1:3 for the answer.`

Jesus woke up from the dead. This belief is important to the Christian faith (1 Corinthians 15:14, 17). For sure, it’s not possible to be a Christian if we don’t believe that Jesus woke up from the dead. When we accept that Jesus woke up from the dead, we also will have hope that our loved ones will wake up from the dead at the time that Jesus comes back (1 Corinthians 15:20–23). We also can look to Jesus today for all the blessings He promised. One of these promised blessings is the Holy Spirit in our lives.

Paul says that God’s might woke Jesus from the dead and “put Christ [Jesus] at God’s right side in heaven” (Ephesians 1:20, NLV). This word picture about “God’s right side” is a quote from Psalm 110:1. New Testament writers use this quote from the Old Testament more than they use any other quote in their writings. Paul tells us that “God raised [woke] us [up] from death with Christ Jesus and gave us a place to sit with him in heaven” (Ephesians 2:6, WE). Also, Paul says that Jesus went to heaven to keep God’s promises and to give gifts to His church (read Ephesians 4:8–11).

In Ephesians 4:8–11, Paul warns us not to get the wrong idea about Jesus sitting on the Father’s throne. Jesus is always busy, even when He is sitting. Paul wants us to see Jesus “working with His Spirit. Jesus sends His Spirit to everyone on earth to save them and to help them win the fight against sin.”—F. F. Bruce, The Epistles to the Colossians, to Philemon, and to the Ephesians (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1984), page 133, adapted. So, Jesus sits on the throne in heaven to give us everything we need.