---
title:  Jesus is High Above Every Power
date:   12/07/2023
---

Paul tells us that God the Father “put Christ [Jesus] over all rulers [leaders], authorities [experts], powers [governments], and kings. He [God] gave him [Jesus] authority [control] over everything that has power [might] in this world [earth] or in the next world [heaven]” (Ephesians 1:21, ERV).

`Compare Ephesians 1:21; Ephesians 2:2; and Ephesians 6:12. What does Paul say in these verses about spiritual powers? Why do you think Paul wants to talk about these powers?`

In Acts 19:11–20, we read the story about the seven sons of Sc eva. This story shows us that Ephesus at the time of Paul was an important place for people who wanted to learn how to use magic. “During New Testament times, people in the Kingdom of Rome believed in spirits. The Roman people believed that spirits control every part of life. A magician’s job was to figure out which spirits were helpful and which spirits hurt people. The magician learned how the spirits worked. The magician also knew about the different skills and strengths that the spirits had. With this knowledge, a magician controlled the spirits and commanded them to do things for him. The magician used special jewels or words to command the spirits. With the right words, a magician could heal a person that an evil spirit made sick. Or a magician could ask a spirit to help someone win a horse race.”—Clinton E. Arnold, Power and Magic: The Concept of Power in Ephesians, page 18, adapted.

Magicians knew the names of the different spirits and what each spirit did. It was important for magicians to know this information. Then the magician would know which spirit to ask for help. This knowledge was an important part of religious life in Ephesus (read Acts 19:13). Paul wants the Ephesians to know that Jesus is more powerful than all these spirits (Ephesians 1:21). Jesus’ control over everyone and everything continues forever. That is why Paul says that Jesus has “authority [control] over everything that has power [might] in this world [earth] or in the next world [heaven]” (Ephesians 1:21, ERV).

`The evil spirits that worked in Paul’s day continue to work today. In what ways do we see them at work? What can we do to make sure we don’t give them any control over us?`