---
title:  Jesus, All Things, and His Church
date:   13/07/2023
---

As we saw already, Jesus is more powerful than anyone or anything in heaven or on earth (Psalm 110:1). God put all things under the control of Jesus (Psalm 8:4, 6). All things include Satan and his evil angels.

Paul also tells us that God made Jesus the leader of the church (Ephesians 1:22).

`The Father asked Jesus to sit down on His throne in heaven. Jesus’ sitting there shows us that He has control over all things in heaven and on earth. What special gifts and blessings does the church get because Jesus sits on His Father’s throne with Him? (Read Ephesians 1:22, 23 for the answer.)`

God gave Jesus success over all evil powers. God promises the church that it will, also, win against Satan and his evil army. Jesus gives the church everything it needs. God gives Jesus to the church. The church is joined so close with Jesus. That’s why the Bible says that the church is the same as Jesus’ own body.

How can we, as Christians, know Jesus our King? How can we experience God’s strength in our lives? Paul doesn’t write down for us any special plan to follow or thing we must do to make this experience happen. But Paul gives us a hint in his prayer report about how we can get God’s strength. Paul prays that God will help the Ephesian Christians to know Him and His strength. Paul believes that God will answer his prayer. So, we see that Paul believes that any experience or knowledge we get about God comes because we have a strong prayer life.

`What has been your own experience with prayer? Have you had a powerful answer to prayer in the past? If yes, what answer did God give you? How does prayer bring us closer to God and the strength that Jesus offers to us?`