---
title:  Additional thought
date:   14/07/2023
---

Read the following two quotes about Jesus from Ellen G. White:

“Jesus walked through the gates in heaven. Then He sat on a throne. Angels were all around him. The angels worshiped Jesus. When this celebration was finished, God gave the Holy Spirit to His followers. Jesus was praised and honored. This honor and praise was the same glory that Jesus shared with His Father before time started. God sent His Spirit to show that He accepted Jesus as our Savior. God promised to send His people the Holy Spirit from heaven to show them that Jesus was their spiritual Leader and King. Jesus controlled everything in heaven and on earth now. God chose Jesus to lead His people.”—The Acts of the Apostles, pages 38, 39, adapted.

“The Father puts His arms around His son. Then God commands, ‘Let all God’s angels worship him [Jesus].’ Hebrews 1:6 [ERV].

“Every leader in heaven accepts that Jesus is in control of everything in heaven and on earth. Jesus is the Prince of life. The angels fall down and worship Jesus. Then the angels fill heaven’s court with their glad shout: ‘All power, wealth, wisdom, and strength belong to the Lamb who was killed. He is worthy to receive honor, glory, and praise!’ Revelation 5:12 [ERV].

“Songs of joy mix with the music from the angels’ harps. Heaven flows with joy and praise. Love wins. God has saved His lost ones. Heaven is now filled with voices that announce, ‘All praise and honor and glory and power forever and ever to the one who sits on the throne and to the Lamb!’ Revelation 5:13 [ERV].”—The Desire of Ages, pages 834, 835, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In what way is Jesus already the Lord of all things now? That is, what things does Jesus have control over now? What control will He have in the future? Read 1 Corinthians 15:24–28 for the answer.`

`Is Jesus the Lord of your life? How are you living under His full control? Or are you living under the control of fallen spirits? How do you know who has control of your life? How can you get away from the control of evil spirits?`