---
title:  Family Unity in a Divided World
date:  11/05/2019
---

**Introduction**: John 17:21

“When a couple asked a pastor if he would perform their marriage ceremony, he proceeded to tell them that he likes to give several sessions of premarital counseling before performing weddings. To which they replied, ‘We don’t need counseling. We’ve both been married several times before.’ ”1

This is the age of self-help and a do-it-yourself mentality. We feel that at times we are immune to issues and problems that cross our path. We think we have answers when really they will just add to the issues before us. Could it be, then, that we are self-deceived? That we have become wise in our own eyes?

As we draw nearer and nearer to the coming of Jesus, the influences of this sinful world will continue to invade not only our beloved church but our homes and marriages as well. Satan is doing his best to destroy the family unit through divorce, and by doing so, he wants to perpetuate these problems with the succeeding generations in order to destroy the family unit and take our eyes off of Jesus.

When the Israelites left Egypt, Moses warned them that, while God is gracious and merciful, God would not excuse willful disobedience against Him and that transgressions would plague their children, their children’s children, and their children as well (cf. Exod. 20:5, 6; Num. 14:18, 19). Did the Israelites heed these admonitions? No, they didn’t, and their disobedience became very evident.

We have much to learn here on earth and more when we get to our heavenly home. God’s ways are always the best, yet we have strayed from these. When Adam and Eve ate of the forbidden fruit, they found themselves outside the Garden of Eden. Soon the results of that bite of fruit showed up in Cain’s choice of sacrificial offering, which eventually led to polygamy. All these choices compounded to greatly affect the family members and the choices they made.

Even though you may not be married yet, you have probably been affected one way or another by your parents’ choices or by choices that your siblings have made. If you are married, you are most likely doing all you can to keep your spouse and children unified amid the chaos, temptations, and distractions that Satan is throwing your way.

This week, we will study how to keep the family together and united. Paul said that we can do all things through Christ (Phil. 4:13), so keep your eyes fixed on Him!

---

<sup>1. Reader’s Digest, May 2009.</sup>

_Alden J. Ho, Jefferson, Texas, USA_