---
title:  Love Is Spoken Here
date:  13/05/2019
---

**Testimony**: Eph. 2:11–22

“If pride and selfishness were laid aside, five minutes would remove most difficulties.”1

How many times do we dig our heels into the ground in an argument simply because of pride? Even if we are not wrong, most arguments could be de-escalated quickly and family unity preserved by humbling ourselves and offering apologies for our un-Christlike behavior.

“There is a sacred circle around every family which should be preserved. No other one has any right in that sacred circle. The husband and wife should be all to each other. The wife should have no secrets to keep from her husband and let others know, and the husband should have no secrets to keep from his wife to relate to others. The heart of his wife should be the grave for the faults of the husband, and the heart of the husband the grave for his wife’s faults. Never should either party indulge in a joke at the expense of the other’s feelings. Never should either the husband or wife in sport or in any other manner complain of each other to others, for frequently indulging in this foolish and what may seem perfectly harmless joking will end in trial with each other and perhaps estrangement. I have been shown that there should be a sacred shield around every family.” 2

The family is a sacred place, and love should be the ruling power. Remember, money is not power in the Adventist home; love is. This is how we can keep family unity.

“The greatest evidence of the power of Christianity that can be presented to the world is a well-ordered, well-disciplined family. This will recommend the truth as nothing else can, for it is a living witness of its practical power upon the heart.”3 How many unbelievers could be won to the truth simply by a genuine Seventh-day Adventist family?

**React**

`1. How important is preserving family unity?`

`2. In what ways can we, as families, conduct our family unity to be a witness to unbelievers? See The Adventist Home, page 32.`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 119.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 177.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 32.</sup>

_Gabriel J. Taylor, Jefferson, Texas, USA_