---
title:  Inferior or Submissive
date:  14/05/2019
---

**Evidence**: Eph. 5:22–33

In Ephesians 5:22, Paul instructs wives to submit to their husbands as unto the Lord. Many today are confused about the word submit. Submit had Greek connotations, meaning “to arrange in a military fashion under the command of a leader” as well as “a voluntary attitude of giving in, cooperating, assuming responsibility, and carrying a burden.”1 Yet with the rise of radical feminism and unbalanced women’s rights movements, submission is made out to be a weakness and considered inferior. As a result, the hierarchy of the home has become blurred and the roles of gender confused. Now women are no longer fighting just for equality, but for superiority.

In Genesis 2, God made Eve as a “help meet” for Adam. But since the fall of humanity in Genesis 3, Satan has tried to destroy the family unit by destroying the model God created. This model shows up again in Ephesians 5:23, “For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.”

In the following verses, the church is paralleled by the family. The wife is synonymous with the church, and the husband synonymous with Jesus. Jesus is the Head of the church just as the husband is the head of the household. If Jesus is not the Head of the church, something is amiss. Jesus is the Foundation, the Cornerstone, the Head. If the husband is not the head of the family, then something is amiss in the house as well.

Submit is not a bad word. Instead, it was ordained by God in Genesis. Husbands need to lead; wives need to submit. Successful marriages would resume if the biblical model were followed.

Editors’ note: Ephesians 5:21 introduces submission bilaterally, then 5:22 adds that submission must not be mindless and foolish deference but “as unto the Lord.” A wife’s first loyalty is to the Lord, whom she is ultimately serving. Additionally, husbands are not to abuse this responsibility; their leadership is modeled “even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it” (Eph. 5:25). These verses are not advocating for a license of abuse. Rather, they paint a picture of devoted humility and servant leadership encased in Christian love. May all Christian marriages reflect this beloved example of Christ.

**React**

`How does individuality manifest amidst submission?`

---

<sup>1. “Lexicon :: Strong’s G5293 – hypotassö,” Blue Letter Bible, https://www.blueletterbible.org /lang/lexicon/lexicon.cfm?Strongs=G5293&t=KJV.</sup>

_Brandy Taylor, Jefferson, Texas, USA_