---
title:  Christ, the Open Door to Family Unity
date:  15/05/2019
---

**How-to**: Col. 1:21–23;1 John 3:16–18

God created the first family with the purpose of enlarging His heavenly family. Because our first parents sinned, we inherited a fallen nature. Selfishness took its place in the heart of humanity. This hindered the Master’s plan and brought disunity within our homes. Because of that, we see a lot of disturbed and broken relationships. Our fallen nature makes all of us face difficulties in raising our children.

The family was always the primary aim of Satan’s attacks. Families are the backbone of the church. Satan knows that if he succeeds in destroying the families, the church will suffer. Disunity will destabilize our homes and also the church. Without unity, the church and the families cannot fulfill their mission. Our church family is growing fast, so pressing together becomes increasingly important. God has a plan to restore unity within our borders, but to make it work, we must cooperate. Here is His plan:

Pray daily for the presence of Christ in our homes and church. Christ walked the different stages of life, and because of that, He’s able to help us out when we face these life challenges (Heb. 2:18). He has the ability through the Holy Spirit to destroy the body of sin, the selfishness within us (Rom. 7:14–25). The presence of Christ alone can make men and women happy. All the common waters of life Christ can turn into the wine of heaven.

Ask daily for the mind-set of Jesus; the spirit of love and compassion toward others (Phil. 2:3–5). Often we treat the people who are close to us the worst. Practical Christianity is what our families, the church, and this suffering world need. We start within our homes, the place where destruction started. The Spirit of Christ manifested in our lives will then unite and enable us to accomplish the great work of giving the last warning to the world.

Go daily with faith through the open door. Be submissive and follow the instructions of the Good Shepherd. In our striving for unity within the church and our families, the Word of God must be the foundation of all truth (Eph. 2:20). God’s Word “is profitable . . . for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness” (2 Tim. 3:16) and is the only source that contains medicine against evil. The Good Shepherd will lead to green pastures, a place of rest and safety.

**React**

`What can you contribute toward unity within your family and within the church?`

---

_Luc Brank, Fruemsen, Switzerland_