---
title:  That They All May Be One
date:  16/05/2019
---

**Opinion**: John 17:22; Acts 2:1

Two thousand years ago, when Jesus Christ walked this earth, there were divisions among the people based on ethnicity, religion, and class. There were divisions among the disciples and early believers, but Jesus prayed to the Father on their behalf that they all might be one, just as He and the Father are one (John 17:20–23).

This prayer was answered on the Day of the Pentecost when the disciples were gathered with one accord and were anointed by the Holy Spirit and specially equipped to go into all the world and preach the gospel in different languages. God wants our families to be united, just as the disciples were.

“When you see geese heading south for the winter, flying in their familiar ‘V’ formation, you might be interested in knowing why they fly that way. Science has learned that, as each bird flaps its wings, it creates an uplift for the bird immediately behind it. By flying in a ‘V’ formation, the flock together gains over 70% more flying range than if each bird flew on its own.

“Like the geese, people who share a common direction and a sense of community can get where they are going quicker and easier, because they are traveling on the thrust of one another.”1 Families that are in unity are an effective witness for Christ.

Two thousand years later we have similar, if not more, divisions based on everything from politics to religion. The command of God remains the same—to be united in faith and to preach the everlasting gospel to every nation. As we overcome these divisions and distractions and unite in the faith and in the knowledge of Jesus Christ, we will receive the latter rain so that together we will be equipped with the power of the Holy Spirit to have a greater range in taking the three angels’ messages to all the nations of this earth. Our purpose in this world will be completed, and we can go home to be with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Imagine if we did that together as families!

**React**

`1. How can your family live and work to minister to those among you who are “far off” and “without Christ”?`

`2. Can you think of instances in the Old Testament where God blessed His people when they were “one” in Him?`

---

_Ivan Joshua Raj, New York, USA_