---
title:  The Greatest Marketing Scheme
date:  27/04/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 3:1–15**

**The Greatest Marketing Scheme**

I once heard of a couple who received an unexpected invitation in the mail for a special evening gala with a fancy dinner. The invitation assured them they had also won a grand prize worth hundreds of dollars. Intrigued and perhaps a bit gullible, the couple decided to attend this event and claim their prize. They dressed up nicely and drove across town to the location. Once they arrived, they quickly realized that they might not have been the only “lucky winner,” for there were many others from their city who had received the same invitation. Soon after, it became evident that the entire event was a deceptive marketing scheme. The “dinner” was nothing to write home about and came with the caveat of having to sit through a product presentation aimed at selling unnecessary trinkets. The frustrated and disappointed couple hoped to claim the promised prize, but they were disappointed once again. The only prize available that night turned out to be a cheaply made milk frother that anyone could buy for only $1.50.

A few thousand years ago, another couple was duped on a much grander scale. Having received an unexpected invitation and the assurance of being “lucky winners,” Adam and Eve were deceived through the first marketing scam in humanity’s history. During the product presentation, lofty experiences were guaranteed and a grand prize was promised, only to result in immeasurable disappointment and devastation that has rippled down through the ages. This week will focus on the moment of humanity’s defection from God, which was also the moment humanity was sucked into the great controversy.

#### inScribe

Write out Genesis 3:1–15 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 1–6. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._