---
title:  Satan’s Sales Tactics
date:  28/04/2024
---

#### inGest

In marketing, professional sales experts have developed and refined strategies for selling products. The most successful marketing techniques often sell the product by selling a feeling. The seller tries to awaken a sense of need in the customer’s mind and then offer the “perfect” solution—for a fee, of course. Whether that need is legitimate or artificially inflated doesn’t matter; only the sale matters. Marketers take various steps toward this goal, often using questionable and sometimes unethical methods in the process.

After Satan was cast out of heaven, he looked for a foothold on planet earth. God restricted Satan to one tree in the middle of the Garden of Eden, as is evident in His instructions to Adam and Eve: “Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die” (Gen. 2:16, 17). So long as they believed in His word, they would be safe, away from Satan.

To sell the idea of joining his rebellion against God, the deceiver devised his own marketing strategy. Having the power to disguise himself, Satan appeared as a serpent. This was Satan’s first sales tactic: camouflage. Whether disguised as an angel of light (2 Cor. 11:14) or a serpent, his success relies on master deception.

Another sales tactic Satan used was twisting God’s words and sowing doubt, both of which were unknown experiences to the then holy human pair: “Has God indeed said, ‘You shall not eat of every tree of the garden’?” (Gen. 3:1). Through this carefully crafted question, he got Eve to engage in a conversation and step into confusion. We must keep in mind that Eve had never encountered lies and evil. For her, this must have been quite an odd but curious discussion. But the poison had already begun its work. Eve responded by slightly misstating what God had said about the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Satan knew there was no point in trying to make Eve an atheist; she had literally spoken to and walked with God. He simply needed to get her to doubt God’s words and righteous intentions, so, through confusion and half-truths, he laid the foundation for doubt to take root.

Satan’s next tactic was to blatantly lie: “You will not surely die. For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil” (vv. 4, 5). Exploiting the God-given desire to grow in knowledge and holiness, Satan implied that God was withholding a better experience from humanity. He claimed it was possible to become like God and gain access to a higher level of intelligence. He promised Eve the freedom to do whatever she desired without suffering any consequences.

Satan’s tactics have not changed much through the ages. He is an expert at mixing truth with error. He and his legions of demons are still utilizing the same tried and (by now) refined sales tactics. Only one sale matters to them: you, trading your eternal life for eternal death.

Journal:

`What lies about God have you chosen to believe in the past?`

`How can we avoid stepping into confusion and doubt?`