---
title:  A Small Step with Giant Consequences
date:  29/04/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Eve had a high-stakes decision to make when Satan offered her the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Step by step, he led her to a choice that resulted in a painful life and, ultimately, death. Though deceived by false promises, she could have walked away from Satan and consulted with her husband and with God before making the fatal decision to eat the fruit. Ellen White highlights the conspicuous absence of Adam when Even was conversing with the serpent at the tree. She describes angels who had warned Adam and Eve “of Satan and cautioned them not to separate from each other in their employment” (Early Writings [1882], 148). Unfortunately, as we know all too well, Eve chose to eat the fruit. All it takes is one small step toward temptation for the almost irresistible domino effect that leads to sin to be engaged. Sadly, when Eve shared the fruit with Adam, he chose to join his wife in her fate. Taking a closer look at this week’s scripture passage reveals the exact steps that led to eating the fruit as well as the resulting effects of sin.

Steps that led to sin (v. 6):

| 1. “when the woman saw | ”Seeing the sin (represented by the fruit) |
| 2. “that the tree was good for food” | Evaluating the experience |
| 3. “that it was pleasant to the eyes | ”Allowing senses and feelings to guide decision |
| 4. “desirable to make one wise” | Considering the benefits of the action |
| 5. “she took of its fruit” | Committing to the experience |
| 6. “and ate” | Committing the sinful action |
| 7. “She also gave to her husband” | Leading others into sin |

Results of sin:

| 1. “the eyes... were opened” (v. 7) | Awareness of a change |
| 2. “they knew that they were naked” (v. 7) | Shame/guilt feeling |
| 3. “they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings” (v. 7) | Self-righteousness |
| 4. “in the cool of the day” (v. 8) | Procrastinating seeking out God |
| 5. “Adam and his wife hid themselves” (v. 8) “I was afraid” (v. 10) | Broken relationship with God |
| 6. “The woman whom You gave to be with me” (v. 12) “The serpent deceived me” (v. 13) | Blaming God/others |
| 7. “multiply your sorrow and conception” (v. 16) “cursed is the ground for your sake” (v. 17) “to dust you shall return” (v. 19) | Sin’s effects on human nature and relationships, nature, and lifespan |

Satan is an expert at making the experience leading up to the sin as pleasant and tempting as possible. He knows human beings thoroughly and can customize his temptations for each of our personalities and according to our personal inclinations. The only safety lies in avoiding the tempter’s ground altogether and trusting in God’s Word completely.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are the temptations you struggle the most with, and what are some things you should get rid of or restrict access to in your life to avoid stepping closer to that temptation?`