---
title:  Ready to Save
date:  01/05/2024
---

#### inVite

In the United States, when you have an emergency and call 911, the operator usually begins by asking the nature and location of the emergency. As long as they know those two things, they can formulate a response plan and set it in motion. Even though Adam and Eve did the opposite of calling for help (i.e., hiding in the garden), God, in His proactive mercy and grace, already had an emergency response plan ready to go. Having anticipated that moment long before time began, God had already prepared a solution to the sin problem: “the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” (Rev. 13:8). This plan, however, was not just one option among many; it was the only possible path to offer full salvation while still upholding justice—but it was also by far the costliest.

God’s crisis management for Adam and Eve truly highlights His character. Despite being the hurt and wronged party, He took the first step toward a solution. Having given the human pair time to process what had happened, God came “in the cool of the day” (Gen. 3:8), seeking out the location of the emergency to deal with the nature of the emergency. Herein God’s attitude toward sinners is revealed: even when we have separated ourselves from God by breaking our covenant with Him, still He comes looking for us to restore the broken bond. Even as the victim, He always takes the first steps toward offering healing to the wrongdoer. God loves His enemies.

God warned Adam and Eve that “in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die” (Gen. 2:17). What had not yet been made known was the fact that God had already prepared a plan to offer them a second chance without jeopardizing His integrity or justice. This second chance is what Genesis 3:15 is all about. Theologians call it the protoevangelium, the first gospel announcement, because in it God prophesied that a “Seed,” meaning a descendant, would deliver a deadly blow to Satan, the instigator of the great controversy. Satan would also wound the Seed, as evidenced by God saying, “you shall bruise His heel,” but this wounding of Jesus on the cross would someday become the ultimate revelation of God’s great love for His children. Nothing else could ensure lasting enmity between God’s children and Satan like the murder of the Son of God on the cross. Even though it cost Jesus’ life, the Godhead was committed to unmasking Satan’s lies and winning His children’s love-based loyalty back. In willingly giving up His life, Christ promised not only redemption but also the final and eternal destruction of Satan, sin, and evil.

Journal:

`Meditate on Genesis 3:1–15 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what way was Jesus “slain from the foundation of the world”? (Rev. 13:8.)`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`