---
title:  Everyone Has Sinned
date:   14/10/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 1:16, 17, 22–32; Romans 2:1–10, 17–23; Romans 3:1, 2, 10–18, 23.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> "Everyone has sinned.  No one measures up to [has succeeded in living a life that is a perfect example of] God’s glory” (Romans 3:23, NIrV).

Paul wants to prove a very important truth at the beginning of his letter to the Romans. This truth is at the heart of the Good News about Jesus: all people are sinners. We have been sinners since Adam and Eve sinned. Sin has damaged everyone. Sin is part of us, just as our eye color is part of us.  

Let us look at what Martin Luther wrote about Paul’s teaching in Romans. Luther led the way forward in the changes that started the Protestant Reformation. The Reformation was a time in the 1500s when people began to “wake up” to Bible truths. These people wanted to improve the Catholic Church. During that time, Luther wrote these words about Romans: “We must understand the spiritual meaning of the wording ‘Everyone has sinned.’ Paul is not talking about how humans appear to themselves or to other people. Instead, Paul is talking about how no one is a perfect example of God’s glory. In God’s eyes, everyone has sinned. Now, many people do good works to avoid punishment. Some people do good to get love, riches, or praise. But these people do not do the right thing from a willing heart. And so, humans continue to do good works for wrong reasons. But on the inside, humans are flled with the desire to sin. Their desire to do evil wars against good works.”—Commentary [Explanation] on Romans, page 69, adapted.
