---
title:  The Power of God
date:   15/10/2017
---

`What does Romans 1:16, 17 mean to you? How have you experienced the hope found in these verses?`

Several important words and groups of words appear in Romans 1:16, 17:

**“Good News”** (Romans 1:16, NLV). This wording comes from a Greek word that means “good message.” By itself the Greek word may mean any good message. But its meaning in these verses is made plain by the wording “it is God’s.” This wording clearly shows us that the Good News is from God, and it is about the Messiah. The Messiah was the One whom God chose to die for our sins. God chose Jesus to be the Messiah. Jesus saves us from the power of sin and death. (In fact, the word “Christ” comes from the Greek word that means “Messiah.”) The Good News is that Jesus the Messiah has come. Everyone who believes in Him can be saved. God does not save us by our own works or even by His law. God saves us by Jesus and His perfect righteousness. Righteousness is God’s power to make us right with Him. 

**“God’s power to make people right with himself”** (Romans 1:17, NIrV). This wording comes from the Greek word for “righteousness.” We said “righteousness” is God’s power to make people right with Him. In the book of Romans, Paul comes up with a special meaning for “righteousness.” We shall learn more about its special meaning as we con-tinue our study. But for now, notice how the English wording for “righteousness” in Romans 1:17 begins with the word “God’s.” The word “God’s” tells us that the power to make people right with God comes from Him. Soon we will learn that God’s power to make us right is the only power good enough to give us the promise of everlasting life. 

**“Faith”** (Romans 1:17, NIrV). The word written as “faith” comes from the Greek word pistis. Pistis also can be written as “believing.” We will see that the meaning of faith and its connection to our being saved will become clearer as we continue our study of the book of Romans.

`Are there times when you wonder if you are saved? Or if you ever can be? Where do these fears come from? Could they be coming from living your life in a way that goes against your beliefs? If yes, what choices must you make to help you know that you are saved in Jesus?`
