---
title:  Everyone Has Sinned
date:   16/10/2017
---

`Why is the message found in Romans 3:23 easy for Christians to believe today? At the same time, what could cause some people to question this truth?`

Some people do not believe that humans are sinners. They argue that humans are, for the most part, good. But this thinking comes from misunderstanding what being good means. We often think about how we are better than other people so that we can feel good about ourselves. After all, we always can fnd someone worse than we are. But this thinking does not make us good. The important question is: How good are we next to God? Not good at all! No one comes at all close to matching how good God is.

Romans 3:23 also talks about “God’s glory.” There are many explanations for what this wording means. Maybe the clearest explanation for this wording is to give this wording the same meaning it has in 1 Corinthians 11:7. This verse reads, “A man should not cover his head. He is the likeness [example of; having the appearance of] and glory of God” (NIrV). In Greek, the word for “glory” has the same meaning as the word “likeness [appearance].” Sin ruined the appearance or “likeness” of God’s glory in humans. And so, sinners fail to show the appearance, or glory, of God.

`Read Romans 3:10–18. In these verses, Paul says that humans can be very evil. Has anything changed today? Which of Paul’s words about evil people best shows who you were before Jesus came into your life?But as bad as we are, we have hope for a new life.`

The frst action we must take to have a new life is to accept that we are helpless sinners. The Holy Spirit helps us come to this clear understanding of ourselves. The Spirit will lead the sinner to tear off the mask he or she wears. This mask is the false face of lies and human works. This mask makes a person appear good to other people. But this mask must come off. Then the sinner must give himself or herself to Jesus. And he or she must beg, “ ‘ “God, have mercy on me. I am a sinner” ’ ” (Luke 18:13, NIrV). 

`When was the last time you took a long look at your reasons for the things you do? It can be hard to look at your reasons for the things you do? It can be hard to examine ourselves this carefully. What is your only hope?`
