---
title:  Improvement?
date:   17/10/2017
---

People thought that the 20th century would bring a better way of life for everyone. The people in the 20th century thought everyone would want to do the right thing. The people in the 20th century also believed that machines and science would help build a perfect life for humans everywhere. The people in the 20th century believed that humans were on the path to becoming perfect. And the people of the 20th century thought humans could improve themselves and their communities by going to school to get special training. This training would help them to choose to do what was right and good. All these good changes were to start happening as we entered the 20th century. 

But things did not turn out that way at all. Instead, the 20th century was one of the most evil times in history. Strange as it seems, we have science to thank for that awful fact. Science made it possible for us to kill more peo-ple than ever before. 

What went wrong? 

`Read Romans 1:22–32. What things does Paul say were happening in the 1st century? How do we see these same things happening today in the 21st century?`

It can take a lot of faith for some people to believe in many things about Christianity. Examples include the Second Coming, a new heaven and a new earth, and the resurrection. The resurrection means coming back to life from the dead. It will take place at the Second Coming. But who has trouble believing that we were born sinners? Today, everyone lives with the pain and suffering that comes from being a sinner.   

`Read carefully Romans 1:22, 23. In these verses, Paul talks about people who turned away from God. What happened when these people turned away from God? What did these people do to show they rejected God? What are some of the ways that we see the same things happening today in the 21st century?`
