---
title:  How Jews and Non-Jews are the Same
date:   18/10/2017
---

Yesterday, we read in Romans 1 about the sins of the Gentiles. Gentiles are non-Jews. The Gentiles worshiped many gods and goddesses and often nature and the earth. Another name for the Gentiles was the pagans. The pagans lost sight of God a long time before Paul wrote his letter to the Romans. The pagans fell into awful sins. These sins flled their minds with evil thoughts. These sins also caused the pagans to behave no better than animals. 

But Paul is not about to let his own people think they are somehow better than the Gentiles. After all, the Jews are sinners too. God’s law shows just how guilty the Jews are. The Jews also need Jesus’ saving grace. Grace is God’s gift to us of forgiveness, mercy, and power over sin. Both Jews and Gentiles need God’s grace to be saved. This same need shows how Jews and Gentiles are the same. 

`Read Romans 2:1–3 and Romans 2:17–24. What does Paul warn us about here?`

“Paul shows that all pagans are sinners. Next, Paul shows that the Jews also live in sin. They give the appearance of obeying the Law. The Jews follow all its rules. But the Jews do not obey the Law in their hearts.”—Martin Luther, *Commentary  [Explanation] on Romans, page 61*, adapted. 

It is easy to point out other people’s sins. But how often are we guilty of doing the same evil or even worse sins? The problem is that we seem to pay no attention to our own faults. Or, we try to make ourselves feel good by pointing out how much better we are than other people.

Paul is not going to accept that behavior. Paul warns his people not to be quick to judge the pagans. In some ways, the Jews were guiltier than the pagans. Why? Because God gave the Jews more truth than He gave the pagans. 

Paul’s message is that no one is as good as God is. No one is born holy or good. Everyone is guilty—male and female, rich or poor. This group includes those who accept God or reject Him. But without the grace God shows to us in the Good News, no one would have hope.

`How often do you find fault with other people for doing the same things you are guilty of doing? How can following Paul's words help you to change?`
