---
title:  The Good News and Turning Away from Sin
date:   19/10/2017
---

`Read Romans 2:4. What truth does this verse teach us about turning away from sin?`

God’s love leads sinners to repentance. Repentance means we feel sorry that we sinned. It also means we turn away from sin with the Holy Spirit’s help. God’s love leads, but it never forces, sinners to turn away from sin. Repentance that is forced would destroy the whole reason for why we need to repent. What if God forced someone to turn from his or her sins? Then everyone would be saved. But no one would be free. We must choose freely to turn from sin. Repentance is an act of free will. Free will is the power to choose how we live our lives. When we repent, we allow the Holy Spirit to help us turn away from sin. Yes, repentance is a gift from God. But we must be ready and open to God’s gift. Nobody else can make the choice to repent for us. We must make this choice ourselves. 

`Read Romans 2:5–10. What happens to people who refuse God’s love, refuse to repent, and continue to disobey Him?`

In Romans 2:5–10, Paul puts a lot of importance on good works. But the importance that Paul puts on the works of the law does not mean we are saved by our works. At the same time, we must not think that our being saved by faith means that good works are not important in the Christian life. True, nothing we do can save us. But our good works show we are saved. Our good works show that Jesus gives us victory over sin and power to live holy lives. It is hard to understand how anyone can read the Bible and come away with the idea that good works are not important. Repentance comes from a willing heart. And our repentance always is followed by our desire to do two things: (1) We will want to win the war against sin. (2) We will want to let go of the things that separate us from God.

`How often do you feel the need to repent? Or do you try not to think about your sins, and pretend your sins are not real? What will happen if you continue to pretend your sins are not real? What danger will you be in? What can you do to change? Why must you change?`
