---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/10/2017
---

“The Bible shows us that sin is not something bad that happens to a person and that takes someone by surprise. No, sin happens because of our free choice. Also, sin does not happen because there is no good. Instead, sin is a choice. Sin means we are afraid to live out God’s plan for our lives. Humans are responsible for their choice to sin. The person who chooses to sin chooses to turn against God. Sin breaks God’s law and fails to follow the Bible. Sin tries to go beyond the limits God has made. Sin is war against God.”—*The Handbook of SDA Theology [The Study of God]* (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 2000), page 1108, adapted.

“I have been shown in a vision an awful picture of life on this earth. Evil behavior flls the earth. The special sin of this time is disobedience. Evil never lifted its ugly head with such power as now. People seem to have lost all feeling. They do not want to be kind to other people. People who love the things that are holy and good feel hopeless at how strong evil is and how evil seems to fll the earth. But evil is not found only in the unbeliever and in people who laugh at the truth. Sadly, many people who say they are Christians are guilty, too. These Christians say they are looking for Jesus’ Second Coming. But these Christians are no more ready for that day than Satan himself. These Christians are not being made clean from every sin. Instead, for far too long, these Christians have chosen sin. So, it is natu-ral for their thoughts to be full of sin and for their hearts to be evil.”—Ellen G. White, *Testimonies [Messages] for the Church*, volume 2, page 346, adapted.  

**Discussion Questions**

`1. Maybe you see yourself described in the words from Ellen G. White above. So, why is it important not to give up hope? Instead, why must you continue to trust God’s promises to forgive you and to make you holy?`

`2. Why is it so important to remember that humans are sinners? What happens when we forget?`

`3. Many Christians in the past disapproved of the Catholic Church’s teachings. These Christians chose to die instead of give up their faith. How strong is your faith? If you had to, would you be willing to die for your beliefs?`
