---
title:  Stars That Shine in the Night
date:   24/01/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Philippians 2:12, 13; Philippians 2:15–17; Philippians 2:25–30; 2 Timothy 1:5.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Whatever you are doing, do not complain. And do not argue. Then you will not be guilty of anything that is wrong. You will be clean inside yourselves. You will be living in a completely good way, as God’s children should. In this world [on this earth], you are living among bad people who have turned away from [rejected] what is good. But you must bring light into this dark place, like [the same as] stars that shine in the night” (Philippians 2:14, 15, EASY).

God told the Hebrews to obey His laws: “ ‘Obey them carefully. That will show people of [from] other nations [people groups] that you are wise. They will hear about all your laws. Then they will say, “The people of this great [mighty] nation are very wise and clever [understanding]!” ’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:6, EASY).

Hundreds of years later, Jesus said, “ ‘You are like [the same as] a light for everybody in this world [on this earth]. If people build a city on a hill, then other people can see it easily’ ” (Matthew 5:14, EASY). How can we act as God’s light? We must live with Jesus every day. He is the “true light [that] gives light to every person” (John 1:9, EASY). Also read John 8:12 and Philippians 2:9–11.

Jesus gives His light to everyone. But we must give our lives to Him first. That’s why Paul’s words in his letter to the Philippians are so important for us today.