---
title:  Letting God Live in Our Hearts And Work in Our Lives
date:   25/01/2026
---

Paul says that Jesus is our perfect example. Jesus had no pride in His heart. He obeyed God’s plan for His life. Paul then praises the Philippians for obeying God after they accepted the Good News about Jesus (read Acts 16:13–15, 32, 33). Paul tells them to continue to obey God.

Now Paul looks at how we follow Jesus’ example. Paul also looks at how the Cross teaches that Jesus saves us.

`What does Paul mean when he says, “God has saved you. You must always live in a way which shows that is true” (Philippians 2:12, EASY)? Read Philippians 2:12, 13 for the answer.`

In Philippians 2:12, 13, Paul doesn’t give us a new or different teaching about the Good News. The Good News in Philippians is the same Good News that Paul talks about in the book of Romans and in his other letters. When we study a topic in the Bible, we must follow an important rule. We should study everything the Bible says about the topic. Our topic this week is how God saves us. This topic is easy to misunderstand. So, when we study a topic that is hard to understand, we must remember to follow this important rule. This rule will help us understand our topic better.

`Read Romans 3:23, 24; Romans 5:8; and Ephesians 2:8–10. What do these verses teach us about how God saves us?`

No question, God saves us with His love and forgiveness. We can’t save ourselves. Our own good behavior can’t save us. Even our faith is a gift. We get this gift when the Holy Spirit works on our hearts. The Spirit helps us to believe. When God gives us a new heart, we can change our behavior. We can obey His law. God’s Spirit helps us to choose to do the right thing. The Holy Spirit also helps us to say no to sin.

When we let God live in our hearts, He changes our lives. Then we can obey God “with fear and respect” (Philippians 2:12, ERV). Does Philippians 2:12 mean that we should feel afraid of God? Of course not! We should remember that God is for us and with us. He is always watching over us. So, we should respect and obey Him (read Psalm 2:11).