---
title:  Stars that Shine in the Night
date:   26/01/2026
---

In Philippians 2:14, Paul gives the Philippians some advice. “Whatever you are doing, do not complain. And do not argue” (EASY). We must work hard to keep peace in the church. Peace and agreement in the church start with our relationship with Jesus. We also must obey the Bible, God’s Word. Then we can act as powerful witnesses for Jesus. We can shine the same as “stars that shine in the night” (Philippians 2:15, EASY).

We clearly can see the stars in the night sky when we are away from streetlights and cities. The black sky makes the stars shine very bright. The same thing happens with our lives. The evil around us makes this earth a dark place. When the evil around us is strong, we will shine the same as bright stars. People will see that we are very different from other people around us who don’t know God.

`What does Paul say that we, as God’s children, should do? Read Philippians 2:15, 16 for the answer.`

As God’s children, we must live holy lives. Then we will “not be guilty of anything that is wrong. You will be clean inside yourselves” (Philippians 2:15, EASY). Job lived this way (read Job 1:1, 8; and Job 2:3; also read Job 11:4 and Job 33:9). An innocent person has a clean heart. This person will not hurt anyone. That’s why Jesus asks us to “ ‘also be like [the same as] doves and don’t hurt anyone’ ” who attacks us because of our faith (Matthew 10:16, ERV). Paul tells us to “stay away from the things that are bad” (Romans 16:19, EASY). Our modern news programs often show us terrible stories. So, David’s words are an important rule for us to follow today: “I will not look at anything wicked [evil]” (Psalm 101:3, ICB).

As God’s people, we will look different from other people. Our faith separates us from evil things. We must shine the same as lights in the dark sky (Philippians 2:15). The only way we can do that is to reject evil (Romans 12:2) and obey God’s Word, the Bible (Philippians 2:16). Our choices show if we are living for Jesus or for this life (Philippians 2:16; compare 1 Corinthians 9:24–27).

`What parts of your life are “dirty” right now? What must you do to become “clean”?`