---
title:  A Living Offering
date:   27/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 2:17; 2 Timothy 4:6; Romans 12:1, 2; and 1 Corinthians 11:1. What do these verses teach us?`

Paul already said he isn’t afraid to die for Jesus (Philippians 1:20–23). Now Paul says, “You believe in Christ [Jesus], and you are his servants. That is like [the same as saying] you are offering yourselves as a sacrifice [gift] to God. Perhaps [maybe] I will soon have [need] to die. Then my blood would be like [the same as a] drink that I am pouring on your sacrifice [offering], to please God” (Philippians 2:17, EASY). This symbol comes from the drink ­offerings during Old Testament times. God’s people poured out oil, wine, or water as an offering to God (read Genesis 35:14; Exodus 29:40; and 2 Samuel 23:15–17). This offering helps us to remember Mary’s act in the New Testament. Mary poured very expensive perfume on Jesus’ head and feet (Mark 14:3–9; John 12:3). Of course, Mary’s gift isn’t a real drink offering. But her gift shows us how much she loved Jesus. So, Mary’s gift is a perfect symbol for Jesus’ offering for our sins on the cross.

Paul accepts that his work for God may get him killed. Paul gave up his life for God, the same as a special offering. In the Old Testament times, God’s people gave other gifts with a drink offering (read Numbers 15:1–10 and Numbers 28:1–15). So, Paul’s life is the same as a drink offering that will be added to the gift that the Philippians are making. Their gift to God is their lives. The Philippians give their whole lives to God to serve Him. They are the same as a living offering (Romans 12:1).

The first Christians went from house to house and shared their faith (Acts 5:42). They shared the Good News with everyone who wanted to hear about it. They invited people to their homes to study the Bible (Acts 12:12; 1 Corinthians 16:19; Colossians 4:15; Philemon 1:1, 2). They gave reasons from the Bible for their beliefs (Acts 17:11; Acts 18:26; 1 Peter 3:15). Our Adventist pioneers did the same things. The pioneers didn’t expect the pastors to do all the work. The pioneers shared the Good News with their neighbors. They shared their faith. They gave Bible studies. They got the people ready for the pastor to baptize when he came back. In short, the pioneers were the same as living offerings. Shouldn’t we copy what they did?