---
title:  Timothy Showed Himself to be a Good Man
date:   28/01/2026
---

Paul already told us that Timothy helped him send the letter to the Philippians (Philippians 1:1). Now Paul tells us that Timothy helped him in his work very much. Timothy shared the Good News about Jesus in different cities and places (2 Timothy 4:5). Paul sent Timothy to Macedonia (1 Thessalonians 3:2; compare Acts 18:5 and Acts 19:22). Also, Paul sent Timothy to Corinth many times (1 Corinthians 16:10). Timothy worked with Paul and Silas in Corinth (1 Thessalonians 1:1; 2 Thessalonians 1:1). Later, Timothy worked with Paul and Silas in Ephesus. Paul says, “There is nobody else here with me like [the same as] him [Timothy]" (Philippians 2:20, EASY). Timothy was the same as Paul in many ways. Timothy loved Jesus. He worked hard to share the Good News with people. Timothy cared about the Philippians.

`Why do you think Paul says so many nice things about Timothy? Read Philippians 2:19–23 for the answer. What else does Paul say about him? Read 1 Corinthians 4:17 and 2 Timothy 1:5 for the answer.`

Paul says, “You know how Timothy proved [showed himself] to be such [so very much] a true [real; good] friend to me when we preached the Good News” (Philippians 2:22, NLV). Timothy showed Paul he was someone he could trust. Paul saw how hard Timothy worked. So, Paul knew that he could depend on Timothy (2 Corinthians 2:9; 2 Corinthians 9:13).

The hard times in life are the same as a test. These experiences show other people who we really are and what is in our hearts. Ellen G. White says, “We will have experiences that will be the same as tests. Some experiences will cause us to feel angry or upset. We must not get mad. When we behave with a spirit of forgiveness and love, we become the same as Jesus in our hearts. So, we must not get mad or upset when people insult us or hurt us. We must answer them with loving words. We must show love to people who are mean to us. Then we will show everyone that the Spirit of Jesus lives in our hearts.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 344, adapted.

`Think about some things that hurt or upset you. Did you get angry? Or did you stay patient and cheerful? How can hard experiences teach you to live the same way as Jesus?`