---
title:  Honor People Who Are The Same as Epaphroditus
date:   29/01/2026
---

`What does Paul say about Epaphroditus? What does Epaphroditus do that shows he is a strong Christian worker? Read Philippians 2:25–30 for the answers.`

Paul talks about Epaphroditus in this letter to the Philippians and nowhere else. We learn a lot about Epaphroditus from Paul’s words. Epaphroditus was named in honor of Aphrodite, a Greek female god. Epaphroditus’s name shows us that he worshiped false gods before he became a Christian. We know that Epaphroditus worked with Paul. They may have worked together in Philippi. In Philippians 1:25, Paul compares Epaphroditus to a soldier (compare verse 27). For sure, Epaphroditus “fought” hard to share the Good News. At times, Epaphroditus was in danger, the same as a soldier. He was not afraid to die for the Lord (Philippians 2:30).

The church in Philippi chooses Epaphroditus to be their messenger to Paul. Epaphroditus visits Paul in jail and takes care of his needs (Philippians 2:25). The Philippians also give Epaphroditus money to take to Paul (Philippians 4:18). These gifts of money were important. Roman people in jail needed to buy their own food, clothes, blankets, and other supplies. Or they must depend on family and friends to bring these things to them (compare Acts 24:23). Near the end of his second time in jail in Rome, Paul asked Timothy to come before winter and bring the coat that Paul left at Troas (2 Timothy 4:21, 13). Paul needed this thick, wool coat in the cold, stone jail. Paul also asked Epaphroditus to carry his letter back to Philippi (read Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 479).

There are problems in the church at Philippi (read Lesson 4). So, Paul sends Epaphroditus back to the Philippians sooner than he wanted. Paul tells the Philippians to welcome Epaphroditus with joy in the Lord (Philippians 2:29). Paul wants to make sure the Philippians don’t worry about him in jail. Paul also tells the Philippians to honor Epaphroditus because he follows Jesus’ example (Philippians 2:6–11, 30; compare Luke 22:25–27). The Greek word for “honor” is used only a few times in the New Testament: (1) for the Roman soldier (Luke 7:2); (2) for the guests at a feast (Luke 14:8); and (3) for Jesus (1 Peter 2:4, 6). Epaphroditus is included in this special group. He served the Lord with his whole heart.