---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   30/01/2026
---

“The time will soon come when God will give every person the final test. People will try to force us to accept the mark of the beast. People who are weak will obey the leaders who force them to accept the mark. Little by little, this group of people followed human ideas and rules. These same people are afraid of insults, jail, and death. So, they will easily accept the mark of the beast. . . .

“At that time, we will see who really serves Jesus. Jesus’ true followers will stand with Him. Many of these followers were afraid to stand for God in the past. They didn’t have much courage. But now they will announce that they are on the side of Jesus and His truth. The most weak and scared members will become as brave as King David. These members will serve God fully. The worse things get for God’s people, the more they will shine, the same as stars. Satan will attack and hurt them. But in Jesus’ name, God’s loyal followers will win the fight.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for Church, volume 5, pages 81, 82, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think about those people in the quote above who “little by little . . . followed human ideas and rules.” What human ideas and rules do you think these people will follow? How does this warning include the whole church?`

`God says, “ ‘I will give honour to people who respect me’ ” (1 Samuel 2:30, EASY). In what ways do we honor God? Is honoring God the same as giving Him glory or praise (Revelation 14:7)? Explain your answer.`

`Paul writes, “So you must continue to live in a way that gives meaning to your salvation [God’s plan to save you]. Do this [live] with fear [honor] and respect for God” (Philippians 2:12, ERV). Is living for God the same thing as trying to earn God’s love and forgiveness with our good behavior? Give a few reasons for your answer.`