---
title:  "The Holy Spirit: Working Behind the Scenes"
date:   07/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit: Working Behind the Scenes

### Read for This Week’s Study:
Ezek. 37:5, 9; Gen. 1:2; Job 26:13; Exod. 31:1–5; John 16:13, 14; Gal. 5:16–23.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘He will glorify Me, for He will take of what is Mine and declare it to you’ ” (John 16:14, NKJV). 

The Holy Spirit does not receive the same prominent attention in Scripture as do the Father and the Son. Nevertheless, the Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit was present at significant moments throughout sacred history. At the beginning, at God’s creation of this world, He was at work, but more in the background. He was active in the inspiration of God’s prophets, thus playing a key role in the writing of God’s Word. He was also involved with the conception of Jesus Christ in Mary’s womb.

Yet, He is not at the center of the biblical record, and we know amazingly little about Him. He remains in the background, and that’s because His role is to advance the work of Someone else in the Godhead—Jesus, the Son of God—and to give glory to God the Father. All this so that fallen human beings might be saved from the eternal death that sin would otherwise bring them. 

From the testimony of Scripture, we learn that the Holy Spirit willingly and gracefully accepts a supporting, helping, sustaining, and equipping behind-the-scenes role. No matter whether it is in creation or redemption or mission, He does not seek to stand in the spotlight, regardless of His crucial role. 

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 14._

`Notes`