---
title:  The Elusiveness of the Holy Spirit
date:   08/01/2017
---

### The Elusiveness of the Holy Spirit 

`Read John 3:3–8 and Ezekiel 37:5, 9. Why is the wind a fitting picture for the mysterious workings of the Holy Spirit?`

By comparing the Holy Spirit’s actions to that of the wind, Jesus describes the Spirit’s elusiveness. The movements of the wind have something mysterious about them. It is difficult to predict with exactness where the wind comes from and where the wind is going. Who hasn’t at times been baffled by the sudden appearance of wind, seemingly out of nowhere? 

Yet, we can learn to become somewhat familiar with the movements and patterns of the wind. In a similar manner, the Holy Spirit is active where He wills. No one can control Him. Yet, we can know where He is active and at work. Just like the wind, the Holy Spirit is invisible but can be most powerful. We, of course, can feel the presence of the wind and can often see its effect, even if we can’t see the wind itself. From a light breeze to deadly blasts, wind can be a very powerful force. When the Holy Spirit is described as wind, His activity has been connected with the idea of bringing life to the dead. This assumes power to the highest potency, something that only God is capable of doing. 

How this is accomplished remains a mystery. God and His workings through the Holy Spirit are greater than what we can fully comprehend, as are so many things both secular and sacred. 

This does not mean that we cannot know what the Holy Spirit accomplishes. But we have to acknowledge that the appropriate virtue in dealing with divine mysteries is humility. Humility appreciates the grandeur of God, recognizes our creaturely limitations, and accepts our need for divine revelation. 

Ellen G. White has aptly stated: “The mysteries of the Bible, so far from being an argument against it, are among the strongest evidences of its divine inspiration. If it contained no account of God but that which we could comprehend; if His greatness and majesty could be grasped by finite minds, then the Bible would not, as now, bear the unmistakable evidences of divinity.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 170. 

`What are some unseen forces in nature that can impact our lives? What should this teach us about the reality of unseen yet powerful influences in our world?`