---
title:  The Holy Spirit at Creation
date:   09/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit at Creation

The first major work of God on this planet was its Creation. The Bible clearly mentions God (Gen. 1:1) and Jesus Christ (Col. 1:16, 17) as the Creator of heaven and earth and of all that, in fact, was made (John 1:1–3). Yet, the Bible also mentions the presence of the Holy Spirit in the work of Creation.

`Read Genesis 1:2; Job 26:13; 33:4; Psalms 33:6; 104:29, 30. What was the role of the Holy Spirit at Creation? How is the Spirit of God related to the creation of life?`

The Creation story in Genesis 1:2 mentions the presence of God’s Spirit at Creation. Job 26:13; 33:4; Psalm 104:29, 30; and Psalm 33:6 support the active role of the Holy Spirit in the supernatural Creation of the earth. While the Bible clearly mentions God the Father and His divine Son, Jesus Christ, as being active in the Creation of the world (see Isa. 64:8; Col. 1:16, 17), the Holy Spirit is present also, although in a more subtle manner. 

He does not appear as the central actor in the Creation story. Instead, He is “hovering” over the void, and through His moving He is present at the genesis of life on this earth. The Hebrew word for “moving over,” or “hovering” (merahepeth) over, the surface of the earth that is used in Genesis 1:2 is the same word that is used in Deuteronomy 32:11, where God is compared to an eagle hovering over its nest of young. The Holy Spirit is intimately involved in the creation of life on this earth and takes care of the newly created living beings as an eagle would do for its young. Psalm 104:30 suggests that the Creation act was possible only through the work of the Holy Spirit and that He played an active part during this process.

`The Holy Spirit was not only present at the Creation of this world; He is also active in the process of our re-creation, in which He gives us a new heart and new mind. How are both of these activities related? What does the Sabbath tell us about this work of Creation and re-creation?`