---
title:  The Holy Spirit and the Sanctuary
date:   10/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit and the Sanctuary 

**“And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them” (Exod. 25:8).**

After the act of Creation, God’s plan of salvation is of prime importance in the Bible. In a fallen world, what good would Creation be without the plan of Redemption? As sinners, we need not just a Creator but also a Redeemer. How thankful we should be that we have that Redeemer, Jesus Christ. Without Him, we would be without hope in a world that, in and of itself, offers us none.

In the Old Testament it was the sanctuary and its service that illustrated God’s forgiveness of sin and foreshadowed the work of Jesus, our Redeemer. It was here that the plan of salvation was revealed to the ancient Israelites (see Heb. 4:2). While much of the sanctuary service pointed to Jesus and His death for the forgiveness of sin, the Holy Spirit is depicted as being actively involved by enabling specific people to build the sanctuary according to the pattern God had revealed to Moses.

`Read Exodus 31:1–5. How was the Holy Spirit involved in the building of the sanctuary? How did the Holy Spirit assist those who constructed God’s dwelling place?`

The Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit was also present at the building of the sanctuary, the central place where reconciliation between God and human beings took place and a holy God met sinners. It was God who communicated to Moses His plan to build the earthly sanctuary according to the heavenly original (Exod. 25:9, 40). 

The sanctuary was God’s model to illustrate His plan of salvation. God was going to dwell amid His people in a special way, and He was going to do it in the sanctuary, which He told them to build. And it was the work of the Holy Spirit to enable human beings to accomplish,with artistic skill and with beauty, what God had told them to do. Without His help, Israel would not have been able to accomplish this artistic craftsmanship. 

`Considering the power of the Holy Spirit, He certainly didn’t need human help in building the sanctuary, but He enabled other people to do it with skill and beauty. How and where can you encourage and assist other people to use their talents to further the kingdom of God to God’s glory?`