---
title:  The Holy Spirit and Christ
date:   12/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit and Christ 

The Holy Spirit effected the incarnation of Jesus (Luke 1:34, 35). He anointed Jesus for His mission (Luke 3:21, 22). The anointing of Jesus endued Him with power to fulfill His Messianic mission and qualified Him to bestow the Holy Spirit on His disciples. The Holy Spirit guided and sustained Jesus in His temptations (Mark 1:12; Matt. 4:1; Luke 4:1, 2, 14) so that Jesus “is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted” (Heb. 2:18, NKJV; compare with 4:15, 16). The Holy Spirit empowered Jesus for this redemptive work (Heb. 9:14) and made Jesus’ resurrection possible (1 Pet. 3:18). In all this, the Holy Spirit remained in the background and helped to bring Jesus Christ to prominence.

`Read Luke 24:44–49; Galatians 5:16–23; and Ephesians 4:23, 24. What do we learn about the work of the Holy Spirit in these passages? How does the Holy Spirit glorify Jesus?`

The Holy Spirit glorifies Jesus in at least the following ways:

1. By teaching about Him in the Holy Scriptures in a trustworthy and reliable manner. Nothing that is necessary for us to know about Christ and His salvation is missing or misleading. It’s all there in the Word of God, if we would but read it in faith and submission.
2. By drawing men and women into a saving relationship with Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit gently works on people’s hearts and minds. He gives them understanding so that they understand spiritual things and so that they will be willing to place their trust in Jesus Christ and accept Him as their Leader and Redeemer.
3. By reproducing Christ’s character in us. He thus brings to life Christlike virtues in our lives (Gal. 5:22, 23). Through the blood of Jesus we are given victory over sin (compare Rev. 12:11), and the Holy Spirit enables us to walk in faithfulness to God’s commandments.
4. By enabling us to live a Christlike, selfless, and loving life of service to others. He calls men and women into specific lines of work for God and enables us to reach out to others in the attractive Spirit of Christ.

`How does the work of reproducing the character of Christ in our lives bring glory to the Father?`