---
title:  Two Minds that Think Alike
date:  11/01/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Philippians
2:1–11**

**Two Minds that Think Alike**

There I sat on the platform, listening to the morning announcements at church before I preached. As one ministry leader made some comments and shared information relative to their department, I shifted in my seat. As I did, I saw my wife give me a knowing look. After the sermon, as we were driving home from church, my wife asked me why I felt the way I did during the ministry leader’s announcement. She shared with me exactly what I had been thinking. She knew what was going through my mind—verbatim! I asked her how she could possibly know what was in my head. She responded that we had been married for some time, and she had gotten to know me quite well.

When two people become one, they can come to the point of looking at the other person’s posture, body movements, and the look on their face and know exactly what is on their mind. Better yet, not only can someone know what we are thinking, but we can also begin to think alike! If that can happen with you and me as humans, imagine what can happen when we invite God into our lives, pray for the mind of Christ, and have an intimate relationship with Him! The Bible says, “ ‘who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct Him?’ But we have the mind of Christ” (1 Cor. 2:16). How incredible that we can receive the mind of Christ! What offer could equal that?

When Christ comes into our lives, the two minds become one and His thoughts become our thoughts. Our actions then become the very actions that Christ would perform. This week, we’re going to look at how we can have the mind of Christ.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out Philippians 2:1–11 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 4–8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `