---
title:  Having Christ’s Mindset
date:  12/01/2025
---

#### inGest

To have the mind of Christ is central to our walk as Christians. The world would be a better place if more professed Christians truly exhibited the mind of Christ in their attitudes and thinking. Paul admonished believers everywhere to “Let this mind be in you” (Phil. 2:5). To let something happen is to allow it to be so, or to not prevent something that’s going to happen. This requires a choice. We must choose to let God do what we cannot do ourselves. God leads us in the right direction, and we must then ask Him to give us the power to follow. We depend entirely on God every step of the way. As Paul wrote, “it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure” (v. 13).

Paul wrote his letter to the Philippians from prison, where his freedom and movements were very limited. If anyone had a right to complain, it was Paul in Roman custody, yet his letter highlights the importance of rejoicing even in the most difficult circumstances, which, again, requires a choice. Paul’s faith in God’s providence remained strong even through the most discouraging conditions (Phil. 1:12–14).

The church in Philippi had certain real-life tensions between their members (4:2). Maybe you know what that looks like because you’ve seen it in your church or university. Paul appealed to them to be “like-minded,” have “the same love” and be “of one accord, of one mind” (2:2). Only if each of us receives the mind of Christ can there be unity of thought. This oneness can only be accomplished if we set aside selfish ambitions and pride and humbly consider others to be more important than ourselves (v. 3). Those with the mind of Christ will not be concerned about their own interests alone but will consider the interests of others (v. 4). Having the mind of Christ means we should have the same attitude that Jesus had and should relate to others the same way He did. The New International Version gives further insight, stating quite simply, “In your relationships with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus” (v. 5).

As our example, Christ gave up His glory and lowered Himself to the very depths of this sinful world, becoming a man, living as a servant, and dying as an accused criminal on the cross (vv. 6–8). Jesus is the supreme example of love and humility. In Christ, we have the perfect model. Today, the challenge is for you and me to have the humble mindset of Christ and treat each other with kindness and honor, valuing each other as God values us.

Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verse from Philippians 2:1–11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How would your thinking change if you had more of Christ’s mindset?`

`How would your relationships look different if you had more of Christ’s mindset?`

` `