---
title:  Next Level Faith and Obedience
date:  13/01/2025
---

#### inTerpret

God desires us to have the same mindset that His Son did. Jesus trusted His Father and clung to His faith even in the darkest moments. This is the kind of faith needed when we follow in Jesus’ example. Like Jesus, we may cry, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?” (Matt. 27:46). Like Jesus, we may feel abandoned by God and unheard. And yet, when we feel no assurance of His love, we can choose to continue to believe. This is a faith that rises above feelings and holds on to God despite the circumstances. Living by faith as Jesus did, we will experience God’s power to save (Rom. 1:16). With His faith living in us, we can overcome the biggest challenges.

When we have Christ’s mind, God’s law will be written in our hearts and we will take joy in doing His will (Ps. 40:8). God’s law guided Christ and all that He did. Jesus didn’t come to get rid of the law; He came to fulfill the law through perfect obedience and submission (Matt. 5:17). Romans 8:7 tells us that we’re inherently hostile to God because of our sinful nature; we cannot submit fully to His law in our own power. Receiving the mind of Christ therefore involves a total reprogramming of our minds to love God’s law instead of hating it. All who have Jesus’ mind will experience firsthand the promise of the New Covenant: “I will put My laws into their hearts, and in their minds I will write them” (Heb. 10:16). With God’s law written on our hearts, we will love to do God’s work and obey His instructions, just as Jesus did.

The book of Revelation promises that when Jesus returns, God will still have a people on the earth who keep His commandments and have Jesus’ faith (14:12). Until the very end, there will always be people who reveal Christ’s mind through faith and obedience. We may be tempted to think that the offer to receive the mind of Christ is for people better than us, but Christ offers His mind to the most broken people. Any one of us can be among God’s faithful children—not by our own goodness, discipline, or intelligence, but by God giving us Christ’s righteousness to cover us, dwell in us, and flow through us.

#### Journal

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How is the mind of Christ different from the carnal mind? (Rom. 8:7.)whether for the first time or again?`