---
title:  Can This Truly Happen?
date:  15/01/2025
---

#### inVite

At a counseling intake session, a new client complained of being stressed out, anxious, and having aches and pains all over her body. After we prayed to start our session, she shared how broken her relationship with her husband had become. The Holy Spirit prompted me to ask this question: “Tell me, what are your feelings toward your husband?” to which she responded, “I hate him!” We sat there in silence for about sixty seconds as she cried. I wanted to give her time to process what she had said and give the Holy Spirit time to work. She went on to talk about the root of her bitterness and the events that led to those feelings. One suggestion I shared with her was to pray for the mind of Christ so she could see her husband through Christ’s eyes and relate to him in a new way.

At our next appointment two weeks later, I asked how things were going. She responded that things were going great! I asked her what made the difference, and she said, “Each morning and sometimes throughout the day, I did what you suggested. I prayed for the mind of Christ. I noticed a change beginning to take place in my heart, and I began to see my husband differently. Then Jesus showed me how to respond in love, patience, and kindness toward my husband. By the end of the first week, my husband expressed that he was deeply touched by the way I was treating him. He then began to change as well, and last Sabbath, for the first time in several years, we attended church together. Praying for the mind of Christ was so simple, yet so profound!” To God be the glory!

Today, right now, as you read this, Jesus is healing people’s marriages, reconciling estranged family members, giving victory over addictions, and changing people’s lives in extraordinary ways. It’s not always immediate. It’s not always within two weeks. God never forces change on anyone. We cannot dictate anyone’s attitude or destiny, but we can choose Jesus for ourselves. We can confess our own sins and embrace His gift of forgiveness. We can accept His offer of eternal life and allow Him to transform the way we treat one another. In more intense situations, if a relationship is physically, emotionally, or sexually abusive, necessary self-protection and safety-seeking measures should also be implemented.

Having Christ’s mind is truly possible. Scripture teaches that “you do not have because you do not ask” (James 4:2). Today, I invite you to begin praying for the mind of Christ. Great things await you, and wonderful changes can take place.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Philippians 2:1–11 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What is Jesus saying to you through the main text?`

`What changes do you believe Jesus can make in your life as you pray for the mind of Christ?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`