---
title:  Purified, Elevated, and Refined
date:  16/01/2025
---

#### inSight

“Man was to bear God’s image, both in outward resemblance and in character. Christ alone is ‘the express image’ (Hebrews 1:3) of the Father; but man was formed in the likeness of God. His nature was in harmony with the will of God. His mind was capable of comprehending divine things. His affections were pure; his appetites and passions were under the control of reason. He was holy and happy in bearing the image of God and in perfect obedience to His will” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 45).

“To pray in Christ’s name means much. It means that we are to accept His character, manifest His spirit, and work His works. The Saviour’s promise is given on condition. ‘If ye love Me,’ He says, ‘keep My commandments.’ He saves men, not in sin, but from sin; and those who love Him will show their love by obedience” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 668).

“It is within the power of everyone to choose the topics that shall occupy the thoughts and shape the character” (Ellen G. White, Education [1903], 127).

“The thoughts must be trained. Gird up the loins of the mind that it shall work in the right direction, and after the order of well-formed plans; then every step is one in advance, and no effort or time is lost in following vague ideas and random plans. We must consider the aim and object of life, and ever keep worthy purposes in view. Every day the thoughts should be trained and kept to the point as the compass to the pole. Every one should have his aims and purposes, and then make every thought and action of that character to accomplish that which he purposes. The thoughts must be controlled. There must be a fixedness of purpose to carry out that which you shall undertake” (Ellen G. White, Our High Calling [1961], 112).

“The youth should begin early to cultivate correct habits of thought. We should discipline the mind to think in a healthful channel and not permit it to dwell upon things that are evil. The psalmist exclaims, ‘Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in Thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my Redeemer’ (Psalm 19:14)” (Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 2 [1977], 657).

“God has made every provision whereby our thoughts may become purified, elevated, refined, and ennobled. He has not only promised to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, but He has made an actual provision for the supply of the grace that will lift our thoughts toward Him, and enable us to appreciate His holiness. We may realize that we are Christ’s possession, and that we are to manifest His character to the world. Prepared by heavenly grace, we become clothed with the righteousness of Christ, in the wedding garment, and are fitted to sit down at the marriage supper. We become one with Christ, partakers of the divine nature, purified, refined, elevated, and acknowledged to be the children of God,—heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ” (Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, October 28, 1897).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, what personal applications are you convicted of in your life? What are some first steps you can take to make those applications?`

`What practical applications must you make in your school, family, workplace, or church?`

`Review your memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`