---
title:  The Biblical View
date:  01/12/2022
---

`Read 1 John 5:3–12. Why does the apostle John limit “eternal life” only to those who are in Christ?`

The biblical doctrine of conditional immortality of the human being—in contrast to the nonbiblical theory of the natural immortality of the soul—is made explicit in 1 John 5:11, 12. To grasp the meaning of this significant passage, we have to remember that only the Godhead “has immortality” (1 Tim. 6:15, 16, NKJV) and is the only Source of life (Ps. 36:9, Col. 1:15–17, Heb. 1:2).

When sin entered the world through the fall of Adam and Eve _(Genesis 3)_, they and all their descendants (including us) came under the curse of physical death and lost the gift of eternal life. But our loving God implemented the plan of salvation for human beings to regain eternal life, the life that was to have been theirs from the start. As Paul wrote: “Just as He chose us in Him _before the foundation of the world_, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love” (Eph. 1:4, NKJV; emphasis supplied).

The apostle Paul explains that “just as through one man [Adam] sin entered the world, and death through sin,” so through “the one Man, Jesus Christ,” the gracious gift of eternal life became available to all human beings (Rom. 5:12–21, NKJV). Paul here is making an unambiguous reference to a literal Adam who brought sin and death into this world. One cannot make sense of anything in the Bible without a literal Adam who, through transgression, brought sin and death into our world.

Thus, the apostle John adds, “God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life” (1 John 5:11, 12, NRSV).

The whole picture becomes clearer in light of Jesus’ statements: “ ‘Everyone who looks to the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life, and I will raise them up at the last day’ ” (John 6:40, NIV), and “ ‘I am the resurrection and the life. Those who believe in me, even though they die, will live’ ” (John 11:25, NRSV).

This means that eternal life is a gift of God through Christ, which is secured in the present but fully enjoyed only after the final resurrection of the righteous. The conclusion is very simple: if everlasting life is granted only to those who are in Christ, then those who are not in Him do not have everlasting life (1 John 5:11, 12). By contrast, the theory of the natural immortality of the soul grants everlasting life—whether in Paradise or in hell—to all human beings, even to those who are not in Christ. However popular this teaching, it is not biblical.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Jesus has loved men, and has made every provision that the blood-bought soul shall have a new birth, a new life derived from His own life. . . . “He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life.” Those who believe in Christ derive their motive power and the texture of their characters from Him in whom they believe.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 299.

Jesus declared, “I am the resurrection, and the life.” In Christ is life, original, unborrowed, underived. . . . The divinity of Christ is the believer’s assurance of eternal life. “He that believeth in me,” said Jesus, “though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.” John 11:25, 26.<br/>
To the believer, death is but a small matter. Christ speaks of it as if it were of little moment. “If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death,” “he shall never taste of death.” John 8:51, 52. To the Christian, death is but a sleep, a moment of silence and darkness. The life is hid with Christ in God, and “when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.” Colossians 3:4.—_The Faith I Live By_, p. 187.

No one less holy than the Only Begotten of the Father, could have offered a sacrifice that would be efficacious to cleanse all—even the most sinful and degraded—who accept the Saviour as their atonement and become obedient to Heaven’s law. Nothing less could have reinstated man in God’s favor.<br/>
Christ gave His life to make it possible for man to be restored to the image of God. It is the power of His grace that draws men together in obedience to the truth. . . .<br/>
To the heart that has become purified, all is changed. . . . The Spirit of God produces a new life in the soul, bringing the thoughts and desires into obedience to the will of Christ; and the inward man is renewed in the image of God. Weak and erring men and women show to the world that the redeeming power of grace can cause the faulty character to develop into symmetry and abundant fruitfulness.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 103.