---
title:  The Jerusalem Council
date:   18/08/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Acts 15; Gal. 2:11–13; Exod. 12:43–49; Rom. 3:30; Lev. 18:30; Rev. 2:14, 20.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘We believe it is through the grace of our Lord Jesus that we are saved, just as they are’ ” (Acts 15:11, NIV).

After more than two years, Paul and Barnabas returned to Syrian Antioch. Because the whole church there had been involved in sending them out as missionaries, it was natural that they would give a report to the church. The report’s emphasis, however, was not what they had accomplished but on what God Himself had done through them. 

The object of the report, of course, was the success of the mission among the Gentiles, though many Jews had also come to faith.	Since the episode of Cornelius, however, the conversion of uncircumcised Gentiles had become an issue (Acts 11:1–18), but now that large numbers of them were being admitted to church membership, things became particularly complicated. Many believers in Jerusalem were not happy. For them, Gentiles would need first to be circumcised, that is, to become Jewish proselytes in order to become part of God’s people and have fellowship with them.

Acts 15 is all about the Gentile problem’s reaching a critical level and about the church’s working together to find a solution. The Jerusalem Council was a turning point in the history of the apostolic church in relation to its worldwide mission.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 25._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Cornelius . . . maintained his religious experience, strictly walking in accordance with the light he had received. God had His eye upon him, and He sent His angel with a message to him. The heavenly messenger passed by the self-righteous ones, came to Cornelius, and called him by name. . . . 

Riches and worldly honor cannot satisfy the soul. Many among the rich are longing for some divine assurance, some spiritual hope. Many long for something that will bring to an end the monotony of their aimless life. Many in official life feel their need of something which they have not. Few among them go to church, for they feel that they receive little benefit. The teaching they hear does not touch the heart. Shall we make no special appeal to them? 

God calls for earnest, humble workers, who will carry the gospel to the higher classes. It is by no casual, accidental touch that the wealthy, world-loving souls can be drawn to Christ. Decided personal effort must be put forth by men and women imbued with the missionary spirit, those who will not fail nor be discouraged.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 6, pp. 1060, 1061. 

We should cling to the teaching of the Bible and not follow the customs and traditions of the world, the sayings and doings of men.  

When errors arise and are taught as Bible truth, those who have a connection with Christ will not trust to what the minister says, but like the noble Bereans, they will search the Scriptures daily to see if these things are so. When they discover what is the word of the Lord, they will take their stand on the side of the truth. They will hear the voice of the True Shepherd saying, “This is the way, walk ye in it.”—_Faith and Works_, p. 86.

This was an important era for the church. Though the middle wall of partition between Jew and Gentile had been broken down by the death of Christ, letting the Gentiles into the full privileges of the gospel, the veil had not yet been torn away from the eyes of many of the believing Jews, and they could not clearly discern to the end of that which was abolished by the Son of God. The work was now to be prosecuted with vigor among the Gentiles, and was to result in strengthening the church by a great ingathering of souls. 

The apostles, in this, their special work, were to be exposed to suspicion, prejudice, and jealousy. As a natural consequence of their departure from the exclusiveness of the Jews, their doctrine and views would be subject to the charge of heresy; and their credentials as ministers of the gospel would be questioned by many zealous, believing Jews. God foresaw all these difficulties which His servants would undergo, and, in His wise providence, caused them to be invested with unquestionable authority from the established church of God, that their work should be above challenge.—_The Story of Redemption_, pp. 303, 304. 