---
title: 'Adjusting to Change'
date: 12/10/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 1

**Adjusting to Change**

Transitions in leadership always bring a degree of uncertainty. Whether it’s a new pastor of a church, a new boss at work, or a new president of a country, it takes time to adjust to working with a new leader. It’s natural to wonder what will stay the same and what won’t. The new leader may have questions too: “Will people accept me and follow my lead? How will they compare me to the previous leader?”

For the Israelites, the time for change had come. Moses had been a faithful leader through Israel’s greatest upheavals, but it was time for him to go to his rest, within sight of the Promised Land but without entering its borders. This wasn’t the path he desired or the path that God chose for him. This path was the consequence of his sin (Deut. 3:23–28). Knowing this, Moses transitioned his responsibilities to Joshua and commissioned him to lead the children of Israel into the Promised Land.

The moment was poignant. Moses had to surrender a long-cherished dream. Joshua received the mantle of leadership from a man he loved and whose loss he would mourn deeply. The people, who had often challenged Moses’ leadership, watched as Moses charged Joshua to lead with courage (Deut. 31:7, 8). When the giants would loom large and victory would seem beyond his grasp, Joshua was to move forward, undaunted, trusting in God’s promise.

Joshua was well aware of the magnitude of his new responsibilities. God had tasked him with leading a group of people who were inherently stubborn, cowardly, whiny, and prone to bouts of rebellion. Joshua had watched Moses battle all these traits throughout the four decades of wilderness wandering. However, Joshua also faced a completely new set of challenges. While Moses had led the people through the wilderness, Joshua would lead them into battle. This motley group of escaped slaves, with no military training, would face walled cities, trained armies, and ruthless opponents. Joshua would need to be courageous enough to face the giants himself and inspire the people to stand with him in battle.

God had prepared Joshua well for this calling. Joshua had stood beside Moses through some of the greatest crises of his leadership. He had watched Moses make difficult choices, intercede for the people, humble himself, and fail and rise again. Joshua had seen firsthand what good leadership looked like. That said, that probably didn’t diminish how intimidated he felt. Moses was leaving behind impossibly large shoes to fill. Perhaps the people wondered how on earth Joshua could ever measure up to Moses, and that’s part of why God made it clear to everyone that Joshua was His choice (Deut. 31:7). God Himself would lead Joshua, leaving no room to doubt the Divine origin of his calling and commission.

When the book of Joshua opens, we immediately see the shift in leadership. Whereas before, God had spoken to Joshua through Moses, God here spoke to Joshua directly, informing him of Moses’ passing and commanding him to prepare the people to go forward and claim their inheritance. When God called Joshua to lead, He gave him the assurance of Divine help. However, God’s promises were based on certain requirements: Joshua needed to be strong, completely reliant on God, and faithful to His word. Everything hinged on a relational covenant between God, Joshua, and the people. God would give them great victories when they were willing to trust in Him and His promises regardless of the grim realities they faced.

This week, identify where God is calling you to “be strong and courageous” in the face of leadership transitions or even your personal challenges. Like Joshua stepping into Moses’ role, trust that God’s presence—not your abilities—will determine your success.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 1:1–9 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 1._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `