---
title: 'Time to Work'
date: 13/10/2025
---

### inGest

When the thirty-day period of mourning following Moses’ death ended (Deut. 34:8), everyone’s attention turned to Joshua. The mantle of leadership probably felt heavy on his shoulders, for it was a mantle worn by a man who had known God face to face, a prophet, a leader, a statesman of unparalleled ability.

God came to Joshua with instructions: “Moses My servant is dead. Now therefore, arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land which I am giving to them” (Josh. 1:2). The command was simple and direct. It was time for Joshua to roll up his sleeves and get to work.

God then proceeded to lay out the scope of Joshua’s mission. He was to lead Israel to conquer the land “from the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river, the River Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun” (v. 4). The task seemed daunting, almost impossible. So much land to conquer; so many giants to subdue. However, God provided Joshua with the means to achieve the mission. God promised that His presence would go with him: “No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life; as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you nor forsake you” (v. 5).

With these words, God guaranteed the success of the mission. All Israel had to do was trust God’s word and act on it by faith. The same means for success is available to us. When we face giant challenges, God’s Word must be our guide and assurance. “All His biddings are enablings.”—Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_ [1900], 333. All His promises are sure (2 Cor. 1:20). His strength will enable us. His promises will empower us. We can arise and go forward with Him.

Joshua understood the urgency of God’s commands. He immediately sent a message throughout the camp of Israel announcing that they would cross the Jordan River within three days (Josh. 1:11). After forty long years of frustration and meandering in the desert, the time had finally come for Israel to enter the Promised Land.

An electric feeling of excitement must have pulsed through the camp. Time was moving rapidly. They would cross the Jordan only seventy days after Moses’ final address to the nation (Deut. 1:3; Josh. 4:19).

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`What promises did God make to Joshua, and what were the conditions of the promise?`

`Have you experienced God’s presence in your life by claiming specific promises? Write down one instance as a reminder of His goodness.`