---
title: 'Internalizing the Word'
date: 14/10/2025
---

### inTerpret

Enormous dangers faced the Israelites in the land of Canaan. An untested group of former slaves who had wandered through the wilderness for forty years was preparing to confront the fiercest, most well-equipped tribes in the region. Their only assurance was God’s word. They had nothing else! Joshua’s success and the future of the entire nation hinged on how faithful they would be to God’s instructions given through Moses. “This Book of the Law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success” (Josh. 1:8). To fight their battles, they had to be firmly and continually connected to God and His word. Their mission would prosper to the extent that they embraced God’s instructions and carefully internalized the Book of the Law.

While the armies of Canaan would brandish their swords and dust off their iron chariots, Israel would rely on the power of God. Getting armies battle-ready usually involves military drills, exercises, and practices to develop troops with good training and discipline. However, Israel was not preparing to fight normal military battles. They would win these battles by faith and reliance on God’s supernatural intervention. Still, Joshua certainly had much to do. Although the clock was counting down, the top priority at this time was renewing the people’s commitment to God and His law. More than anything else, God was looking for uncompromising commitment and obedience from His people. The battles ahead of them could never be won through the strength and skill of the Israelite people. They depended completely on God for victory. Their greatest need was faithfulness to God in all things. As their leader, Joshua needed to be quick to hear and obey God’s voice and lead the people to follow.

Loving and trusting God always leads to surrendering to His requirements. A living, vibrant faith is established on a willingness to step out on God’s Word, to test its promises, and to lean on its wisdom. Scripture, infused into every aspect of our lives, will make the difference between victory and defeat. Living by the Word gives us an edge over the giants in our lives and enables us to see the power of God working in us and through us. Today, God wants to give us unimaginable victories, if we will take time to read God’s Word with open hearts, reflect carefully on its meaning, and be diligent to follow what it says.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Is obedience to God’s commands less or more important today than in Joshua’s day? Why?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 1. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._