---
title: 'The Promise of God’s Presence'
date: 16/10/2025
---

### inVite

Joshua must have felt alone as he realized he would be fighting major battles without the presence and guidance of Moses, his trusted leader for the past forty years. How much Joshua must have missed Moses’ support and wisdom! Losing Moses undoubtedly made Joshua feel a keen sense of dependency on God. He knew that all his strength had to come from Him.

Joshua was tasked with the mission of conquering the mighty Canaanites—impossible by human means. Having God’s blessing and presence was Joshua’s only hope of success. He found refuge in the promise of God’s presence when God told him, “I will not leave you nor forsake you” (Josh. 1:5). Joshua listened carefully as God repeated the promise: “For the LORD your God is with you wherever you go” (v. 9). There would be no stories about Joshua and the conquest of Canaan if he had not first embraced the promise of God’s presence and chosen to move forward in faith. Everything hinged on Joshua’s faith that God was with him.

Like Joshua, Jesus’ disciples received an impossible mission that could never be accomplished by human means: taking the gospel to the whole world. They too would be completely overwhelmed by the enormity of their mission unless they depended on God’s presence to go with them. When Jesus commissioned His disciples, He guaranteed them His presence with words that echoed the promise made to Joshua: “And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age” (Matt. 28:20). Christ’s promise of His continued presence was the only basis on which the disciples could hope for success in taking the message of salvation to the world.

As the disciples moved forward with their mission, they faced incredible opposition. Throughout their journeys, they relied on God’s presence to sustain them. To the apostle Paul, Jesus appeared in a vision, saying, “Do not be afraid, but speak, and do not keep silent; for I am with you, and no one will attack you to hurt you; for I have many people in this city” (Acts 18:9, 10). The early church found the courage to continue preaching no matter the risk when they believed God was with them.

Our God-given task today—completing the Great Commission—requires no less faith in God. It may seem easier to retreat into our homes, classrooms, and workplaces, trying to hide from the work God is calling us to do. However, like Joshua and the disciples, we have the assurance of God’s presence. In His strength, we must take hold of His promise, overcome our fears, and move forward in faith to fulfill His call.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`When has God called you to do something impossible? What did you learn?`