---
title: 'The New Leader'
date: 17/10/2025
---

### inSight

“Moses was dead, but his influence did not die with him. It was to live on, reproducing itself in the hearts of his people. The memory of that holy, unselfish life would long be cherished, with silent, persuasive power molding the lives even of those who had neglected his living words.…

“Joshua was now the acknowledged leader of Israel. He had been known chiefly as a warrior, and his gifts and virtues were especially valuable at this stage in the history of his people. Courageous, resolute, and persevering, prompt, incorruptible, unmindful of selfish interests in his care for those committed to his charge, and, above all, inspired by a living faith in God—such was the character of the man divinely chosen to conduct the armies of Israel in their entrance upon the Promised Land. During the sojourn in the wilderness he had acted as prime minister to Moses, and by his quiet, unpretending fidelity, his steadfastness when others wavered, his firmness to maintain the truth in the midst of danger, he had given evidence of his fitness to succeed Moses, even before he was called to the position by the voice of God.

“It was with great anxiety and self-distrust that Joshua had looked forward to the work before him; but his fears were removed by the assurance of God, ‘As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee: I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.... Unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land, which I sware unto their fathers to give them.’ ‘Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses.’ To the heights of Lebanon in the far distance, to the shores of the Great Sea, and away to the banks of the Euphrates in the east—all was to be theirs.

“To this promise was added the injunction, ‘Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law, which Moses My servant commanded.’ The Lord’s direction was, ‘This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night;’ ‘turn not from it to the right hand or to the left;’ ‘for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success.’ ”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_ [1890], 481, 482.