---
title: inQuire
date: 18/10/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Continuing forward after the death of Moses:**

1. How do you imagine Joshua felt after the death of such an iconic leader and mentor like Moses? _Read Josh. 1:1, 2. See Deut. 34 for background._
2. What dangers and challenges can you identify that might have caused Joshua to hesitate in the mission God gave him?
3. How did Joshua find the courage to be so decisive in the face of incredible risk? _Read Josh. 1:3–11._

`Personal reflection: How have you experienced God’s presence when losing somebody important or being called to face a very great challenge?`

**Boldness and faithfulness:**

1. Why was the promise of God’s presence important for Joshua’s courage? _Consider Josh. 1:5, 9. See also Deut. 20:1–4; 31:6–8, 23._
2. Why did the Israelites spend so much time on faithfulness to God’s instructions while preparing for war? _Consider Josh. 1:7, 8. Also consider verses 13, 16–18._
3. What situations have taught you how to rely on God? How can you develop stronger faith?

**Spiritual leadership:**

1. What qualities should we look for in spiritual leadership? How does spiritual leadership differ from secular leadership?
2. What do you see from the story of Joshua that can help young people today overcome apathy towards God’s work?

`Personal reflection: How can we establish a legacy or influence that continues after our death?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- Though it is tempting to pull back and retreat, losing somebody important can facilitate a new commitment to move forward in faith.
- Having a sense of God’s presence gives power and boldness to do great things.
- Faithfulness to God’s instructions is important when expecting great things from Him.