---
title:  Evil Makes God Sad
date:   26/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The God of the Bible loves decisions that are fair. He hates evil. Sin and evil make God angry. God shows His anger against evil when evil people hurt innocent people. God also feels upset when someone does something evil to hurt himself. God hates evil because evil always hurts the living things that He made. In the Bible stories, God gets angry again and again because of the evil that His people do against Him. Below is an outline of what happens in those Bible stories:

1. First, the people stop obeying God and do evil. Sometimes the people do terrible things to make God angry. What was one of the terrible things that the people did? They killed their children and offered their children’s blood and dead bodies as gifts to false gods.
2. God respects the people’s decision to stop obeying Him. He leaves them alone.
3. Foreign countries attack God’s people and hurt them.
4. The people cry to God to save them from their enemies.
5. God in His mercy saves His people.
6. After the people are no longer in danger, they stop obeying God and do worse sins than they did in the past.

God continues to show His people His mercy and love when they fight against Him.

`Read Psalm 78. What does this psalm tell us about how God feels when His people fight against Him again and again? What does God do when they reject Him?`

The Bible tells us that being fair and showing love go together. God’s anger is the answer of His love against evil because evil always hurts someone that God loves. Every example of God’s anger in the Bible shows that God’s anger is always fair.

Again and again, God’s people rejected Him and turned against Him. But God was patient with His people, even when they made mistakes. God gave them His mercy when they did not expect Him to help them (Nehemiah 9:7–33). God showed them His wonderful love. As Psalm 78:38 says, “God was merciful [filled with mercy]. He forgave their sins and did not destroy them. Many times he held back his anger. He never let it get out of control” (ERV).

God’s anger is the answer of His love against evil because evil always hurts someone that God loves.