---
title:  God Gets Angry Slowly
date:   27/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Evil makes God angry because God is love. God is so filled with mercy that one special messenger in the Bible scolded God for being filled with too much mercy!

`Let’s think about the story of that special messenger, Jonah. How did Jonah feel, and what did he say, when God forgave the Ninevites? Read Jonah 4:1–4 for the answer. (Read also Matthew 10:8.)`

Jonah’s words and feelings tell us a lot. First, we see that Jonah’s heart is very hard and cold. Jonah hated the Assyrians so much. The Assyrians destroyed Israel. So, Jonah didn’t want God to show them any mercy.

Jonah’s story is a powerful lesson for us! We must be careful not to feel the same way about people who hurt us. Remember, God gave us His mercy when we weren’t good enough. So, we must be willing to show mercy to the people who hurt us.

Also, Jonah’s thoughts and feelings show us how important God’s love, mercy, and forgiveness are to our understanding of who He is. Jonah knew very well that God was loving and filled with mercy. Jonah also knew that God didn’t get angry fast (Jonah 4:2). Jonah knew that the Lord would not punish Nineveh if the people who lived there stopped doing evil. God is fair with all people everywhere.

Let’s look in the book of Jonah at the Hebrew words written as “slow to get angry” (Jonah 4:2, NIrV) or “don’t become angry quickly” (Jonah 4:2, ICB). In the Hebrew language, these words really mean someone with a “long nose.” In Bible times, a person who had a long nose was a word picture for someone who was very patient. A long nose was a sign that it took the person a long time to get angry.

The Bible says that God has a long nose because He doesn’t get angry fast. Also, He is very patient. Humans get angry really fast, right? Not God. Because God is patient, He gives us His mercy before we know Him. But God’s mercy doesn’t excuse sin. God accepted the punishment for our sins on the cross so that He can be fair and save the ones who believe in Him (Romans 3:25, 26).

`How can remembering what God did for you help you to show mercy to other people? Is showing mercy to the ones who hurt you the same as excusing their sin? Explain.`