---
title:  God’s Anger Is Holy
date:   28/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Many angry feelings are evil and filled with sin. But the Bible also teaches us that there is holy anger.

Imagine in your mind a mother watching her three-year-old daughter at the playground. All of a sudden, a man attacks her daughter. The mother should feel angry, right? When evil things happen, we get angry because of the love we feel for the people that get hurt. This example helps us understand God’s holy anger.

`Read Matthew 21:12, 13 and John 2:14–16. What does Jesus say and do when He sees the evil things happening in God’s temple? How does Jesus’ anger in this story help us understand God’s anger at evil?`

In these verses, we see that Jesus was upset with the people who did evil in God’s temple. Jesus’ feelings were holy. These people stole money that was meant to help widows, orphans, and the poor (Matthew 21:13; compare with John 2:16). The temple offerings showed God’s forgiveness and how He made people clean from sin. But the Jewish leaders used the offerings to cheat and hurt the poor and the needy. No wonder Jesus was mad!

Mark 10:13, 14 and Mark 3:4, 5 give us more examples of Jesus’ holy anger. When people brought little children to Jesus, His followers scolded the ones who brought them. That upset Jesus. Jesus said to His followers, “ ‘Let the little children come to me. Don’t stop them’ ” (Mark 10:14, ERV).

In another Bible story, the Jewish leaders waited to accuse Jesus of breaking the Sabbath because He healed someone on it. Jesus asked the leaders, “ ‘What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day? Should we do good? Or should we do evil? Should we save life? Or should we kill?’ But no one answered (Mark 3:4, NIrV). “Jesus looked at the people. He was angry, but he felt very sad because they were so stubborn. He said to the man, ‘Hold out your hand.’ The man held out his hand, and it was healed” (Mark 3:5, ERV). Do you see that Jesus is both angry and sad at the same time? Jesus is upset because the Jewish leaders had hard hearts. Jesus’ anger is holy because it comes from His love. In the same way, the anger of God in the Old Testament is holy because it also came from His love. How can God not get upset with evil when evil hurts the ones whom God loves?