---
title:  God And Punishment
date:   29/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible shows us that God helps people who are hurt and suffering. God also shows His anger against evil people. Evil makes God angry. His anger is always against the things that hurt the living things that He made.

When we read Lamentations 3:32, 33, we see that God doesn’t want to punish sinners. He doesn’t want to judge evil people. But God is a God of love. Because God is a God of love, He must be fair and punish evil.

We see this Bible truth in the Bible stories about how long God continued to forgive His people. Again and again, God gave His people time to stop sinning and come back to Him. God sent His special messengers, the prophets, to His people. But His people refused to listen (read Jeremiah 35:14–17; Psalm 81:11–14).

`Read Ezra 5:12 and compare it with Jeremiah 51:24, 25, 44. What explanation do these verses give us about why God judged Jerusalem? (Also read 2 Chronicles 36:16.)`

Ezra 5 tells us that God’s people continued to make Him angry. After a long while, God finally allowed Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, to remove His people from their land and take them away to Babylon (Ezra 5:12). God waited a long time before He let go of His people. He waited until there was no other way to save them (2 Chronicles 36:16). Later, God judged Babylon for the terrible things that it did to His people and their land (Jeremiah 51:24, 25, 44; compare with Zechariah 1:15).

When God judges His people, the Bible explains God’s actions as **giving** the people to their enemies (Judges 2:13, 14, NLV; Psalm 106:41, 42, ERV, NKJV). That’s because God is accepting their decision to serve other gods and not Him (Judges 10:6–16; Deuteronomy 29:24–26). As we saw already, God’s anger against evil comes from His love and because He wants the best for everyone. God’s anger against evil will finally cause Him to destroy all sin and evil forever.

`God doesn’t want to punish anyone. How does this idea help you to understand God’s anger? If God gets angry very slowly, we should be more patient with other people, right? At the same time, how can we protect and take care of the ones who suffer because of evil people?`