---
title:  Showing Mercy
date:   30/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For sure, God’s anger is terrible. But His anger comes from His love. In the Old and New Testaments, God shows His anger against evil because of His love. God’s anger needs to be terrible **because** evil is so terrible.

Love is important to God; anger isn’t. God gets angry because sin and evil cause bad things to happen to the ones He loves. In the end, God’s love will end His anger when He ends all evil. God will no longer be angry because there won’t be any more evil. God’s anger will stop because there won’t be any need for it again. This thought is wonderful!

`Some people use God’s anger as an excuse to be avengers and get back at other people for hurting them. Read Deuteronomy 32:35; Proverbs 20:22; Proverbs 24:29; Romans 12:17–21; and Hebrews 10:30. How do these verses help us to understand that we must not try to hurt the people who hurt us?`

The Bible tells us that God may punish us. When He does, He is always fair. Both the Old and New Testaments say that only God may judge and punish the people who hurt us. As Paul writes in Romans 12:19, “My dear friends, don’t try to get even. Leave room for [allow] God to show [punish them with] his anger. It is written, ‘I am the God who judges people. I will pay them back,’ (Deuteronomy 32:35) says the Lord” (Romans 12:19, NIrV).

While God judges people who are not fair and do evil, there is good news. Jesus made a way for everyone to be saved who believes in Him. Jesus “saves us from God’s anger, and his anger is sure to come” (1 Thessalonians 1:10, NIrV). God’s coming anger is part of His plan: “God planned to save us from the punishment of sin through [because of] our Lord Jesus Christ. He did not plan for us to suffer from His anger” (1 Thessalonians 5:9, NLV). The ones who believe in Jesus will be saved from God’s anger.

`How does Jesus’ death on the cross allow God to be both fair and filled with mercy when He does His work as Judge? What did God do to save us from His coming anger? Why should this Bible truth help you to be more patient with other people?`