---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   31/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pages 315–330, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

When Ellen G. White wrote about the gold cow, she said: “The Israelites were guilty of turning against God. God was their King. As their King, God poured many blessings on them. The people promised to obey God. So, now God needed to punish the people who broke His law. At the same time, God showed the people mercy. God honored His law, but He gave people the freedom to choose to confess their sins and stop sinning. . . .

“God needed to punish this sin. Then the people from the countries around Israel would know that God hated when anyone worshiped the statues of gods. Moses wrote about Israel’s crime and left a record to show that God was not happy with His people for their sin. Later, the Israelites must teach people around them that worshiping statues was a sin. Their enemies would accuse Israel of worshiping the gold calf in Horeb after they promised to worship only God. God’s people would need to answer that, yes, they sinned. But then they must help other people remember that God punished the ones who sinned against Him. This punishment is proof that God didn’t excuse their sin.

“God’s love caused Him to judge His people for worshiping the gold cow. . . . Because of His mercy, God allowed many people to suffer when He judged them. God permitted them to suffer so that He didn’t need to judge millions of people and punish them. So, to save many people, God must punish the few guilty ones.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 324, 325, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do you think people have a hard time accepting God’s anger? What helps you to understand it?`

`What happens when people try to get back at those who hurt them? Why can God punish evil and judge people? Why can’t we judge them?`

`How did God’s punishment of Israel for worshiping the gold cow show His mercy? What other examples in the Bible show that God’s work as Judge is loving?`

`Why must we not judge other people?`