---
title:  All to the Glory of God
date:  25/07/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Corinthians 8; Acts 15:20; 1 Cor. 9:1–6; 1 Cor. 10:5–22; Deut. 6:4, 5; Mark 12:28–31.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God” (1 Corinthians 10:31, NKJV).

First Corinthians 8–10 brings the discussion on sexuality (in chapters 5–6) to a conclusion at the same time that it introduces Paul’s answers to specific questions asked through a letter (1 Cor. 7:1) from the Corinthians. These answers will dominate the remainder of 1 Corinthians.

The transitional nature of 1 Corinthians 7 indicates that sexual immorality (chapters 5–7) and idolatry (chapters 8–10) are related topics. Indeed, they are often mentioned together in the New Testament (see Acts 15:20, 29; Acts 21:25; 1 Cor. 6:9; Eph. 5:5; Col. 3:5; Rev. 21:8; Rev. 22:15).

In general, while in 1 Corinthians 5–7 Paul deals with the problem of sexual immorality, in 1 Corinthians 8–10 his main concern is the issue of idolatry. He states that Christians must flee from both (1 Cor. 6:18, 1 Cor. 10:14).

Last week, we saw that by being a temple of the Holy Spirit (1 Cor. 6:19, 20), one can flee from sexual immorality. This week, we will see that one can flee from idolatry by doing “all to the glory of God” (1 Cor. 10:31, NKJV).

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 1._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Through Christ the hidden glory of the holy of holies was to stand revealed. He had suffered death for every man, and by this offering, the sons of men were to become the sons of God. With open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, believers in Christ were to be changed into the same image, from glory to glory. The mercy seat, upon which the glory of God rested in the holiest of all, is opened to all who accept Christ as the propitiation for sin, and through its medium, they are brought into fellowship with God. The veil is rent, the partition walls broken down, the handwriting of ordinances cancelled. By virtue of His blood the enmity is abolished.\
The simple story of the cross of Christ, His suffering and dying for the world, His resurrection and ascension, His mediation in the sinner’s behalf before the Father, subdues and breaks the hard and sinful heart, and brings the sinner to repentance. The Holy Spirit sets the matter before him in a new light, and the sinner realizes that sin must be a tremendous evil to cost such a sacrifice to atone for it. . . . How grievous must sin be that no less a remedy than the death of the Son of God could save man from the consequences of his guilt. Why was this done in behalf of man?—It was because God loved him, and was not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, believe in Jesus as a personal Saviour, and have life eternal.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 228.

The agency of the Spirit of God does not remove from us the necessity of exercising our faculties and talents, but teaches us how to use every power to the glory of God. The human faculties when under the special direction of the grace of God are capable of being used to the best purpose on earth. Ignorance does not increase the humility or spirituality of any professed follower of Christ. The truths of the divine Word can be best appreciated by an intellectual Christian. Christ can be best glorified by those who serve Him intelligently. The great object of education is to enable us to use the powers which God has given us in such a manner as to represent the religion of the Bible and promote the glory of God.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 146.