---
title:  Knowledge Versus Love
date:  26/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 8:1–13. Why does Paul contrast knowledge with love, and what is the context here? What point is he making?`

Paul uses the theme of food offered to idols in order to address a deeper issue: the lack of love for others (1 Corinthians 8). The matter of food offered to idols split the church of Corinth into two groups. Some believed that their knowledge about the nonexistence of other gods gave them the right to eat anything (1 Cor. 8:4). These are referred to as the “strong” (1 Cor. 4:10). Those who opposed this behavior are called the “weak” (1 Cor. 8:9–12). Paul uses such a label because they did not overcome some superstitious beliefs that marked their previous pagan experience. When seeing the “strong” eating food offered to idols, they might conclude that Christianity and idolatry were compatible. So, Paul did not want the “strong” to become a stumbling block to the weak.

The Bible sees the act of eating food offered to idols very negatively (Acts 15:20, 29; Acts 21:25; compare with Rev. 2:14, 20). However, Paul does not utter as radical statements as one sees in these passages. This is because his primary concern regards the lack of unity that the misuse of knowledge could cause. Paul is not criticizing knowledge as evil in itself; instead, he’s against the kind of knowledge that leads to arrogance and division in the church. Knowledge without love is not true knowledge at all (1 Cor. 8:2). True knowledge arises only when one loves God and is known by Him (1 Cor. 8:3).

Quoting Deuteronomy 6:4, Paul shows that believers must know that there is only one God (1 Cor. 8:4–6). Interestingly, he follows the same idea one sees in Deuteronomy 6:4, 5, where the statement that our God is one is followed by the command “You shall love the Lord your God” (NKJV). For both Paul and Moses, knowledge without love is worthless.

Confident in their knowledge, the “strong” believed that eating food sacrificed to idols was harmless. As we will see on Wednesday and Thursday, Paul conceded to them that right under certain conditions. However, if that became a stumbling block for the “weak” (1 Cor. 8:9), it should be avoided. Christians are supposed to practice self-denial out of love for Christ and others.

`Paul argues that, without love, knowledge may become a bad thing (1 Corinthians 8). In what situations can knowledge without love indeed be bad?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

He who has the love of God shed abroad in his heart, will reflect the purity and love which exist in Jehovah, and which Christ represented in our world. He who has the love of God in his heart has no enmity against the law of God, but renders willing obedience to all His commandments, and this constitutes Christianity. He who has supreme love to God will reveal love to his fellow-men, who belong to God both by creation and redemption. Love is the fulfilling of the law; and it is the duty of every child of God to render obedience to His commandments. . . .\
The law of God, which is perfect holiness, is the only true standard of character. Love is expressed in obedience, and perfect love casteth out all fear. Those who love God, have the seal of God in their foreheads, and work the works of God. Would that all who profess Christianity knew what it means to love God practically. . . . They would have some realization of the infinite holiness of God, knowing that He is high and lifted up, and the train of His glory fills the temple. They would have a powerful influence upon the life and character of those around them, which would work as leaven amid the mass of humanity, transforming others through the power of Jesus Christ. Connected with the Source of power, they would never lose their vital influence, but would ever increase in efficiency.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 51.

Faith is not an opiate, but a stimulant. Looking to Calvary will not quiet your soul into nonperformance of duty, but will create faith that will work, purifying the soul from all selfishness. . . .\
There are two errors against which the children of God—particularly those who have just come to trust in His grace—especially need to guard. The first. . . is that of looking to their own works, trusting to anything they can do, to bring themselves into harmony with God. He who is trying to become holy by his own works in keeping the law, is attempting an impossibility. . . . It is the grace of Christ alone, through faith, that can make us holy.\
The opposite and no less dangerous error is that belief in Christ releases men from keeping the law of God; that since by faith alone we become partakers of the grace of Christ, our works have nothing to do with our redemption.\
But notice here that obedience is not a mere outward compliance, but the service of love. The law of God is an expression of His very nature; it is an embodiment of the great principle of love, and hence is the foundation of His government in heaven and earth. . . . Instead of releasing man from obedience, it is faith, and faith only, that makes us partakers of the grace of Christ, which enables us to render obedience.\
As Jesus was in human nature, so God means His followers to be. In His strength we are to live the life of purity and nobility which the Saviour lived.—The Faith I Live By, p. 93.