---
title:  Selfless Love
date:  27/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 9:1–6. How does this passage provide a practical example of what it means to practice self-denial motivated by love?`

At first sight, it looks as though Paul’s defense of his apostleship, in 1 Corinthians 9, has nothing to do with the previous discussion on knowledge versus love. One cannot forget, though, that the Bible was not originally written in chapters. What Paul teaches in 1 Corinthians 9 is not disconnected from the preceding material. Indeed, 1 Corinthians 9 offers a practical example of selfless love for Christ and for the brethren. For the sake of love, Paul relinquishes a few rights.

“To eat and drink” (1 Cor. 9:4, NKJV). Here food and drink represent financial assistance in general. As an apostle, Paul had the right to receive material support from those to whom he ministered. Other religious leaders in his time used to do just that. But he didn’t; instead, he supported himself by making tents (Acts 18:3).

“To take along a believing wife” (1 Cor. 9:5, NKJV). A married apostle was allowed to make a missionary journey with his wife at the church’s expense. Examples of missionary couples include Priscilla and Aquila (Rom. 16:3) and Andronicus and Junia (Rom. 16:7). But Paul was unmarried (1 Cor. 7:8). He could get married and then benefit from the right of being accompanied by a wife, with financial support for both.

“To refrain from working” for a living (1 Cor. 9:6, NKJV). Paul and Barnabas had the right to earn wages for their missionary work (1 Cor. 9:4–6). Paul made tents for a living (Acts 18:3), but we don’t know what Barnabas’s occupation was. We know that he was very generous (Acts 4:36, 37), and thus, he was willing to support himself.

In 1 Corinthians 9:7–11, Paul develops the idea of 1 Corinthians 9:6 in order to show that it is fair for him and Barnabas to earn a living from the church (1 Cor. 9:11, 12). The Lord Himself commanded, “Those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel” (1 Cor. 9:14, NKJV; compare with 1 Tim. 5:18). Nevertheless, Paul says, “We have not made use of this right” (1 Cor. 9:12, ESV). Thus, Paul presents himself as an example of self-denial (1 Cor. 9:1–18) and argues that this benefits the preaching of the gospel in Corinth (1 Cor. 9:19–23).

`What are things that, though they perhaps are due you, you might still be better off relinquishing in order to be a more effective witness for the Lord?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We are taught in the Word of God to be kind, tender, pitiful, courteous. Cultivate Christlike love. Let all that you do bear the impress of this love. Those who do not speak the words and do the works of Christ are trying to climb into heaven by some other way than through the door. . . .\
Do not endeavor to preserve your cold, un-Christlike dignity. This is not religion; it is not Christianity. What you need is the light that shines in the face of Christ to cause your faces to shine with the brightness of His love. Put away your cast-iron dignity. God has not told you to cherish any such thing. Let your hearts be filled with the love of Christ. Then Christlike sympathy will shine forth from your faces. . . .\
There are some serving in holy things who have no faith in God or His power. They multiply their efforts to gain salvation by their own devices. How pitiful are their vain endeavors to justify themselves, and to hold their footing against the downward current of evil. They are powerless; for they do not make God their trust. . . .\
God is the eternal, uncreated fountain of all good. All who look to Him and trust in Him find Him to be this. To those who serve Him, cleaving to Him as their heavenly Father, He gives the assurance that He will fulfil His promises. His joy will be in their hearts, and their joy will be full.—This Day With God, p. 266.

The qualities which it is essential for all to possess are those which marked the completeness of Christ’s character,—His love, His patience, His unselfishness, and His goodness. These attributes are gained by doing kindly actions with a kindly heart. . . . Christians love those around them as precious souls for whom Christ has died. There is no such thing as a loveless Christian; for “God is love.” . . . “This is my commandment, That ye love one another as I have loved you.” This is the fruit that is to be given back to God.\
The Lord will help every one of us where we need help the most in the grand work of overcoming and conquering self. Let the law of kindness be upon your lips and the oil of grace in your heart. This will produce wonderful results. You will be tender, sympathetic, courteous. You need all these graces. The Holy Spirit must be received and brought into your character; then it will be as holy fire, giving forth incense which will rise up to God, not from lips that condemn, but as a healer of the souls of men. Your countenance will express the image of the divine. . . . God requires every soul in His service to kindle their censers from the coals of sacred fire. The common, severe, harsh words that come from your lips so readily must be withheld, and the Spirit of God speak through the human agent. By beholding the character of Christ you will become changed into His likeness. The grace of Christ alone can change your heart and then you will reflect the image of the Lord Jesus. God calls upon us to be like Him,—pure, holy, and undefiled. We are to bear the divine image.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 102.