---
title:  Learning From the Past
date:  28/07/2026
---

After providing an example of self-denial from his own experience, Paul turns more particularly toward the issue of idolatry. In a sense, 1 Corinthians 10 develops the idea of 1 Corinthians 9:27, where Paul comments that he exercises self-discipline in order not to become disqualified. He wants the Corinthians to follow his example, but Jesus is the model par excellence (1 Cor. 11:1).

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:7–11. What sins did Israel commit in the wilderness, and why do the privileges granted to them make their sins even worse?`

In 1 Corinthians 10:1–5, Paul alludes to the history of God’s people in the wilderness. The reference to the cloud and the sea brings God’s leading, presence, and protection to mind. In turn, food and drink stand for God’s provision. Paul refers to the experience of Israel in the cloud and sea as a baptism, analogous to Christian baptism. Likewise, by referring to food and drink, Paul alludes to the Lord’s Supper.

In other words, 1 Corinthians 10 teaches that, in a sense, Christians are living the same experiences as Israel did. However, Paul recalls the history of Israel because he does not want that history to repeat itself. Despite all the privileges Israel had, many of the people nevertheless desired evil things (1 Cor. 10:6), such as idolatry (1 Cor. 10:7) and sexual immorality (1 Cor. 10:8). No wonder, then, that “God was not pleased with most of them” (1 Cor. 10:5, NIV).

It is easy to point the finger at ancient Israel and say they committed gross sins. However, Paul argues that Christians are susceptible to practicing similar sins despite their immense privilege of knowing the history of Christ. This is clear in the warning: “Let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall” (1 Cor. 10:12, NKJV). The phrase “who thinks” suggests that some in the church did not realize they were in danger of falling into those sins. Do we run the same risk today?

“Let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.” Who among us has not experienced the reality of that warning?

`The Bible says that God will not allow us to be tempted beyond what we can bear, “but with the temptation will also make the way of escape” (1 Cor. 10:13, NKJV). Why, then, do we still find it so easy to fall into sin?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Bible is its own expositor. Scripture is to be compared with scripture. The student should learn to view the word as a whole, and to see the relation of its parts. He should gain a knowledge of its grand central theme, of God’s original purpose for the world, of the rise of the great controversy, and of the work of redemption. He should understand the nature of the two principles that are contending for supremacy, and should learn to trace their working through the records of history and prophecy, to the great consummation. He should see how this controversy enters into every phase of human experience; how in every act of life he himself reveals the one or the other of the two antagonistic motives; and how, whether he will or not, he is even now deciding upon which side of the controversy he will be found.\
Every part of the Bible is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. The Old Testament no less than the New should receive attention. As we study the Old Testament we shall find living springs bubbling up where the careless reader discerns only a desert.\
The book of Revelation, in connection with the book of Daniel, especially demands study. Let every God-fearing teacher consider how most clearly to comprehend and to present the gospel that our Saviour came in person to make known to His servant John—“The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto Him, to show unto His servants things which must shortly come to pass.” Revelation 1:1. None should become discouraged in the study of the Revelation because of its apparently mystical symbols. “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not.” James 1:5.\
“Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for the time is at hand.” Revelation 1:3.\
When a real love for the Bible is awakened, and the student begins to realize how vast is the field and how precious its treasure, he will desire to seize upon every opportunity for acquainting himself with God’s word. Its study will be restricted to no special time or place. And this continuous study is one of the best means of cultivating a love for the Scriptures. Let the student keep his Bible always with him. As you have opportunity, read a text and meditate upon it. While walking the streets, waiting at a railway station, waiting to meet an engagement, improve the opportunity to gain some precious thought from the treasure house of truth.—Education, pp. 190, 191.