---
title:  Warning Against Idolatry
date:  29/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:5–22. Why must we flee from idolatry?`

In 1 Corinthians 10:14–22, Paul resumes the issue of food offered to idols. Offering food to idols may be strange in many cultures today, but it was common in biblical times. When animals were sacrificed to the gods in the heathen temples, part of the animal was given to the officiat­ing priests, who sold the meat. Some of this meat found its way into the public markets. Because this meat was not kept separate from other meat that was also offered for sale in the market, a Christian might unknowingly purchase meat that had been offered to idols. The counsel of the apostle is that such meat may be freely purchased by Christians.

Nevertheless, while meat previously sacrificed in a temple could be eaten by Christians at home (1 Cor. 8:1–13), the practice of going into pagan temples and participating in their festivals was clearly forbidden for Christians. The criterion is clear: Christians are allowed to eat that meat at home because the idols are nothing (1 Cor. 8:4); however, Christians must not participate in pagan ceremonies because this corresponds to worshiping demons (1 Cor. 10:20, 21). Taking part in pagan rituals equals having communion with demons (1 Cor. 10:20), just as taking part in the Lord’s Supper equals having communion with Christ (1 Cor. 10:16).

Thus, Paul says, “You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord’s table and of the table of demons” (1 Cor. 10:21, NKJV). As Jesus said: “No one can serve two masters” (Matt. 6:24, NKJV).

Paul teaches that God requires wholehearted loyalty. He implies that idolatry provokes “the Lord to jealousy” (1 Cor. 10:22, NKJV). For that not to happen, Paul, in 1 Corinthians 8:4–6, provides an infallible rule against idolatry, by alluding to Deuteronomy 6:4, 5, “Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one! You shall love the Lord your God _with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength_” (NKJV; _emphasis supplied_). To this idea of loving God above all things in Deuteronomy 6:5, Jesus added, “ ‘ “You shall love your neighbor as yourself” ’ ” (Mark 12:31, NKJV; see also Lev. 19:18).

`An idol doesn’t have to be a stone statue. We can make an idol out of just about anything. What idols, if any, do you need to flee from in your own life?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Sacred history presents many illustrations of the results of true education. It presents many noble examples of men whose characters were formed under divine direction, men whose lives were a blessing to their fellow men and who stood in the world as representatives of God. Among these are Joseph and Daniel, Moses, Elisha, and Paul—the greatest statesmen, the wisest legislator, one of the most faithful of reformers, and except Him who spoke as never man spake, the most illustrious teacher that this world has known.\
In early life, just as they were passing from youth to manhood, Joseph and Daniel were separated from their homes and carried as captives to heathen lands. Especially was Joseph subject to the temptations that attend great changes of fortune. In his father’s home a tenderly cherished child; in the house of Potiphar a slave, then a confidant and companion; a man of affairs, educated by study, observation, contact with men; in Pharaoh’s dungeon a prisoner of state, condemned unjustly, without hope of vindication or prospect of release; called at a great crisis to the leadership of the nation—what enabled him to preserve his integrity? . . .\
Loyalty to God, faith in the Unseen, was Joseph’s anchor. In this lay the hiding of his power. . . .\
By their wisdom and justice, by the purity and benevolence of their daily life, by their devotion to the interests of the people—and they idolaters—Joseph and Daniel proved themselves true to the principles of their early training, true to Him whose representative they were. . . .\
What a lifework was that of these noble Hebrews! . . .\
The same mighty truths that were revealed through these men, God desires to reveal through the youth and the children of today. The history of Joseph and Daniel is an illustration of what He will do for those who yield themselves to Him and with the whole heart seek to accomplish His purpose.—Conflict and Courage, p. 366.

All that we are or can be belongs to God. Education, discipline, and skill in every line should be used for Him.... Whether the amount entrusted is large or small, the Lord requires that His householders do their best. It is not the amount entrusted or the improvement made that brings to men and women the approbation of heaven, but it is the faithfulness, the loyalty to God, the loving service rendered, that brings the divine benediction “Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.” This reward of joy does not wait until our entrance into the City of God, but the faithful servant has a foretaste of it even in this life.—To Be Like Jesus, p. 91.