---
title:  Further Thought
date:  31/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pp. 315–330, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“How much good might be done if we would make a right use of our associations with one another! Every one who has received of the heavenly benefits is under obligation to shed some light on the pathway of others. . . . Then all those who truly love God will cease their idolatry of self.”—Ellen G. White, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, November 18, 1884, p. 730.

“Paul urged his brethren to ask themselves what influence their words and deeds would have upon others and to do nothing, however innocent in itself, that would seem to sanction idolatry or offend the scruples of those who might be weak in the faith. ‘Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. . . .’

“The apostle’s words of warning to the Corinthian church are applicable to all time and are especially adapted to our day. By idolatry he meant not only the worship of idols, but self-serving, love of ease, the gratification of appetite and passion.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 316, 317.

“If you see that by doing certain things which you have a perfect right to do, you hinder the advancement of God’s work, refrain from doing those things. Do nothing that will close the minds of others against the truth. . . . All things may be lawful, but all things are not expedient.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 215.

**Discussion Questions**:

`According to Paul, the behavior of a mature Christian can sometimes inhibit the growth of an immature Christian. Think of situations in which this may happen. Why is the principle of loving God above all, and the other as oneself, the only way to deal with this challenge?`

`What are some idols that even Christians can end up worshiping, if not careful? What are some good things that we can turn into idols? Also, how do you know if something that you care greatly about has become an idol?`

`Paul says he disciplined his body and brought it into subjection so he would not become disqualified when preaching the gospel (1 Cor. 9:27). Based on this week’s study, think about what can disqualify a person as a preacher of the gospel.`

`In 1 Corinthians 10, Paul addresses the dangers of idolatry and says, “Flee from idolatry” (1 Cor. 10:14). Why is idolatry so bad?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

That I May Know Him, “Eternity Before Us,” December 30, p. 370.\
Our High Calling, “Talents for Everyone,” October 10, p. 289.\