---
title:  God’s Promise to Love Us
date:   04/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

Psalm 33:5; Deuteronomy 7:6–9; Hosea 9:15; 1 John 4:7–20.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus answered, ‘All who love me will obey my teaching. My Father will love them. My Father and I will come to them and live with them’ ” (John 14:23, ERV).

New Testament writers use different words from the Greek language to talk about “love.” Two of these words are “agape” and _“phileo_.” Many people believe that the Greek word _“agape”_ talks about a love that comes only from God. People also believe that _“phileo”_ means to love in a way that isn’t as powerful as _“agape_.” They also think that “agape” is something that God can give but never get from humans.

All of these ideas are false. When we study the Bible carefully, we see that “agape” can mean both God’s love and human love. Bible writers also use the word _“agapao_.” _“Agapao”_ means “to love.” _“Agapao”_ can sometimes be used to talk about loving the wrong things (2 Timothy 4:10, John 12:43). Many times New Testament writers use words other than _“agape”_ or _“agapao”_ to mean God’s love. Jesus said, “ ‘The Father loves you. He loves you because you love Me and believe that I came from the Father’ ” (John 16:27, NLV). In this verse, the word for “love” in the Greek language is _“phileo_.” As we see, John uses this word to talk about both God’s love and human love.

The Bible also teaches that God’s love is not one-way. God wants to be in a love relationship with us. God cares about how we think and feel about Him. God loves us and wants us to love Him back.