---
title:  God’s Everlasting Love
date:   05/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible tells us that God loves everyone. The most famous verse in the Bible announces this truth: “ ‘For [yes] God loved the world [the people who live and die on this planet] so much that he gave his only Son. God gave his Son so that whoever believes in him may not be lost, but have eternal [everlasting] life’ ” (John 3:16, ICB).

`Read Psalm 33:5 and Psalm 145:9. What do these verses teach us about God’s love and mercy?`

Some people may think that no one can love them. Or they may think that God loves everyone else, but not them. But the Bible announces that God loves everyone. Because God loves everyone, He also wants everyone to be saved.

`Read 2 Peter 3:9; 1 Timothy 2:4; and Ezekiel 33:11. What do these verses teach us about how much God wants to save everyone?`

The verse after John 3:16 adds: “ ‘God did not send his Son into the world [to this earth] to judge the world [people]. He sent him to save the world’ ” (John 3:17, WE). God wants every person to accept His love and be saved. But the Lord won’t force His love on anyone. People are free to accept or reject His love.

What happens when someone rejects God’s love? Does God stop loving this person? Of course not. God continues to love the ones who reject His love. In Jeremiah 31:3, God announces to His people: “ ‘I love you people with a love that continues forever’ ” (ERV). Elsewhere, the Bible teaches this same idea (to read an example, look at Psalm 136). God’s love never runs out. His love is everlasting. We have trouble understanding this idea because we often have a hard time loving other people, don’t we?

What if we knew God’s love for ourselves? How would this love change how we behave each day? How would this love change how we love other people?

`God loves everyone. God loves bad people, too. What should God’s love for these awful people teach us about how we should love them?`