---
title:  God’s Promise To Love Us
date:   06/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible often uses word pictures about families to show God’s special love relationship with us. These word pictures include the love between a husband and wife or the love of a mother for her child. These word pictures are used to show the special relationship between God and His chosen people. God promises to love His people. He also expects His people to accept His love and to love Him (and each other) back.

`Read Deuteronomy 7:6–9. What do these verses teach us about the relationship between God’s love and His promises?`

Deuteronomy 7:9 talks about a special love relationship that God has with His chosen people. The relationship depends on their loyalty. If they obey God, God will bless them. God won’t stop loving them if they sin. But the people can break their relationship with God if they reject His love and His law.

In Deuteronomy 7:9, the word written as “love” (ERV) or “mercy” (KJV) comes from the word _“hesed”_ in the Hebrew language. _“Hesed”_ shows us the promise of God’s love and so much more. Bible writers often use _“hesed”_ to tell us that God’s mercy and love are very powerful and wonderful. _“Hesed”_ also means the loyal love that someone shows another person in a relationship. When a person has _“hesed”_ love in his heart, he can start a love relationship with someone and expect that this person will love him back.

God’s _“hesed”_ shows that His mercy continues forever. We can depend on God’s promise of mercy and love. At the same time, we must obey God and do our part in the love relationship with Him (read 2 Samuel 22:26; 1 Kings 8:23; Psalm 25:10; Psalm 32:10; 2 Chronicles 6:14).

God’s love for us is the beginning of all love relationships we have with others. We can never match God’s love. God gave us life. God in Jesus gave Himself to us. Jesus said, “ ‘The strongest love anyone can have is this. He will die to save his friends’ ” (John 15:13, WE). For sure, God showed us the strongest example of His love when Jesus died for us on the cross (Philippians 2:8).

`What are ways you can keep God’s love always in your thoughts? Why is it important to do so?`