---
title:  A Relationship With God Depends On Our Choice
date:   07/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God invites every person to have a personal love relationship with Him (read Matthew 22:1–14). If we want to have a relationship with God, we must love and obey Him (read Matthew 22:37–39). Everything depends on our choice to accept or reject God’s love. God wants to bless us in our relationship with Him. So, we must accept His love to get the blessings He promises us.

`Read Hosea 9:15; Jeremiah 16:5; Romans 11:22; and Jude 1:21. What do these verses teach us about God’s promised blessings? Can we reject His blessings or lose them? Explain.`

If we want to enjoy the blessings that God promises, we must choose to love and obey Him. But we must not think that God stops loving anyone. As we saw already, God’s love is everlasting. This Bible truth helps us to understand Hosea 9:15 better. In this verse, God says about His people, “ ‘I will not love them anymore’ ” (ERV). But we must remember that later in the same book God announces about His people, “ ‘I will love them freely [without limits]. I am not angry with them anymore’ ” (Hosea 14:4, ICB). So, Hosea 9:15 can’t mean that God completely stops loving His people. The verse must be talking about some blessing of God’s love that the people lost because they didn’t obey Him. How we answer God’s love is important for our relationship with Him to continue.

“ ‘He who knows my commands and obeys them is the one who loves me. And my Father will love him who loves me. I will love him and will show myself to him’ ” (John 14:21, ICB). In the same way, Jesus announces to His followers, “ ‘The Father loves you. He loves you because you love Me and believe that I came from the Father’ ” (John 16:27, NLV).

These verses teach us that getting the blessings from a saving relationship with God depends on our accepting His love. (We also must share that love with other people, too.) Again, God’s love for us does not end if we reject Him. We can’t stop the sun from shining or from giving us its light. In the same way, we can’t do anything to stop God’s everlasting love. But we can reject a relationship with God. When we do, we cut ourselves off from the blessings this relationship offers, including the promise of everlasting life.