---
title:  Mercy Lost Or Rejected
date:   08/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God’s love is everlasting. We can’t earn God’s love. But we can reject it. God gives us a choice: we may accept or reject His love. God gives us this freedom to choose because He loves us with His perfect, everlasting love **before we do anything** (Jeremiah 31:3). Our love for God is our answer to everything He gives us before we ask for it.

`Read the picture story in 1 John 4:7–20. Look carefully at verses 7 and 19. What does the picture story tell us about God’s love?`

God’s love always comes first. If God didn’t first love us, we couldn’t love Him back. God made us to love and to be loved. God is the beginning of all love. But we have the choice to accept God’s love and then show that love in our lives. We see this Bible truth in Jesus’ picture story about the servant who won’t forgive (read Matthew 18:23–35).

In the picture story, we see that the servant can’t repay the money he owed the master. In Matthew 18, the servant owed his master 10,000 talents. One talent was the same as about 6,000 denarii or Roman coins. One denarius was the pay that a man got for one day of work (compare with Matthew 20:2). A worker would need to work 6,000 days to earn one talent. Let’s say that a worker worked for 300 days a year. Then he would earn 300 denarii in one year. So, he would need to work about 20 years to repay one talent, because one talent was worth 6,000 denarii (6,000/300 = 20). To earn 10,000 talents, then, the worker would need to work for 200,000 years! In short, the picture story shows that the servant never can repay the money he owed the master. But the master felt love and mercy for his servant. So, the master forgave him.

But the forgiven servant refused to forgive the small amount of money (100 denarii) that one of his fellow servants owed him. The forgiven servant had his fellow servant thrown into prison. Then the master got angry and removed His gift of mercy and forgiveness. God’s mercy and love don’t run out or end. But we can finally reject and lose the blessings of God’s love and mercy.

`What has God forgiven you for? How much did this forgiveness cost Jesus? What should this price tell you about forgiving other people?`