---
title:  Giving To Other People Because God Gives To Us
date:   09/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw yesterday, the servant couldn’t pay his master the money he owed. In the same way, we can’t pay God for everything He did and does for us. “God shows his love for us in this way: Christ died to save us while we were bad people [sinners]” (Romans 5:8, WE). God’s love is so amazing! As 1 John 3:1 says, “The Father has loved us so much! He loved us so much that we are called [named] children of God” (ICB).

What we can and should do is show God’s love to other people as much as we can. God shows us so much love and forgiveness. So, how much more should we love and forgive other people? Remember, the servant lost his master’s mercy and forgiveness because he didn’t show mercy and forgiveness to his fellow servant. If we love God, we will show His love to other people.

`Read John 15:12; 1 John 3:16; and 1 John 4:7–12. What do these verses teach us about the relationship between God’s love, our love for God, and our love for people?`

Jesus told His followers, “ ‘You are my friends if you do what I command you’ ” (John 15:14, ICB). What did Jesus command them to do? Jesus commanded them (and us) to love other people as He loved them. In this verse and in other verses, the Lord commands us to love God and to love each other.

In short, we should understand that God forgave us for something we can’t pay Him back for. So, we should love and praise God and live with love and mercy in our hearts for other people. As Luke 7:47 teaches, the one who gets a lot of forgiveness also loves a lot. But “ ‘people who are forgiven only a little will love only a little’ ” (ERV). Who among us doesn’t know how much God forgives us?

If we love God, we must love other people, too. We should want to share the message about God’s love with people in words and in actions. We should help people in their daily lives here and now. We also should seek to lead people to the One who offers them everlasting life in a new heaven and on a new earth.

`What are some things that you can do today and in the coming days to show God’s love to people? What can you do to invite them to enjoy the promise of everlasting life?`