---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Privilege of Prayer,” pages 93–104, in Steps to Christ.

“Tell God about all your needs, your joys, your sorrows, your troubles, and your fears. God will not grow tired of listening to you. God knows the number of hairs on your head. So, He knows everything you need. ‘The Lord is full of [filled with] loving-kindness [mercy] and pity.’ James 5:11 [NLV]. Our sorrows touch God’s heart of love. When we tell our sorrows to God, His heart is touched, too. Tell everything to God that troubles your mind. Nothing is too big for God to solve. God keeps life going on all the planets. He is the King over all heaven and earth. Nothing that makes us happy or at peace is too small for Him to care about. He knows everything that happens to us. He can fix any problem. Our Father in heaven is interested in everything that happens to us. He is interested in the things that upset us and the things that give us joy. He is interested in every prayer of faith that we say. ‘He heals those who have broken hearts. He takes care of their wounds.’ Psalm 147:3 [NIrV]. The relationship between God and every one of us is personal and deep. God loves you and watches over you as if you were the only person on the earth who needed His love and care. He loves you as if He gave His Beloved Son to die only for you and no one else.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 100, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about this thought from the quote above: “God loves you and watches over you as if you were the only person on the earth who needed His love and care. He loves you as if He gave His Beloved Son to die only for you and no one else.” How does this thought give you hope? How should you live your life, knowing how much God cares for you?`

`How does this week’s lesson help you to understand Psalm 103:17, 18 better? What does this lesson show you about God’s everlasting love? In what ways is His love everlasting? At the same time, how do the blessings of a relationship with God depend on our choice to accept His love?`

`How does your understanding of God’s everlasting love strengthen your relationship with God and people?`