---
title:  Arrest in Jerusalem
date:   08/09/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Acts 21; Rom. 2:28, 29; Gal. 5:6; Acts 22; Acts 23:1–30; Matt. 22:23–32.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The following night the Lord stood near Paul and said, ‘Take courage! As you have testified about me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome’ ” (Acts 23:11, NIV).

Soon after Paul’s first missionary journey, it became clear that there was a fundamental disagreement in the church on how the Gentiles were to be admitted into the faith (Acts 15:1–5). Perhaps sensing a growing conflict, Paul conceived a plan to promote unity in the church. Because at the council he was asked to remember the poor (Gal. 2:10), he decided to invite the Gentile churches to provide financial aid to the brethren in Judea, the “collection for the saints” (1 Cor. 16:1), perhaps hoping that it could help build bridges between the two groups.  

This could explain his determination to go to Jerusalem at the end of his third journey, despite the risks. On one hand, he had a genuine love for his fellow Jews (Rom. 9:1–5); on the other, he longed for a united church (Gal. 3:28, 5:6). As Jews and Gentiles were equally saved through faith, not through the works of the law (Rom. 3:28–30), any social alienation between them based on the ceremonial requirements of the law was against the inclusive nature of the gospel (Eph. 2:11–22). 

Let’s follow Paul as he enters this new phase of his life and mission.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, September 15._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. . . . There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. Galatians 3:26-28. 

The secret of unity is found in the equality of believers in Christ. The reason for all division, discord, and difference is found in separation from Christ. Christ is the center to which all should be attracted; for the nearer we approach the center, the closer we shall come together in feeling, in sympathy, in love, growing into the character and image of Jesus. With God there is no respect of persons. . . . 

All men are of one family by creation, and all are one through redemption. Christ came to demolish every wall of partition, . . . that every soul may have free access to God. His love is so broad, so deep, so full, that it penetrates everywhere.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 99.    

Oneness with Christ depends on the renewing of the mind by the Holy Spirit. Thus we are strengthened to walk in newness of life, receiving from Christ the forgiveness of our sins. . . . 

All disunion, all selfish thoughts, words, and actions, are the fruit of the working of an unholy spirit upon the mind. Under the influence of this spirit, words are spoken which do not reveal the Saviour. Christ is not formed within, the hope of glory. Those who live thus are sinners, though they may be disguised as saints. . . . 

. . . We need to seek God, that we may find Him precious to our souls. We need to keep Him as our abiding guest and companion, never parting from Him. 

To be one with Christ in God is the privilege of every soul. But in order to be this, we must be meek and lowly, teachable and obedient.—Letter 75, May 21, 1900, to Elder G. A. Irwin, president of the General Conference. 

Self-esteem and self-sufficiency are killing spiritual life. Self is lifted up; self is talked about. Oh, that self might die! “I die daily,” said the apostle Paul. When this proud, boasting self-sufficiency and this complacent self-righteousness permeate the soul, there is no room for Jesus. He is given an inferior place, while self swells into importance and fills the whole temple of the soul. This is the reason why the Lord can do so little for us. Should He work with our efforts, the instrument would appropriate all the glory to his own smartness, his wisdom, his ability, and he would congratulate himself, as did the Pharisee.—_Lift Him Up_, p. 310.