---
title:  A Politically Compromised Church
date:   06/01/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 5:27–39**

**A Politically Compromised Church**

During the Roman emperor Constantine’s reign (A.D. 306–337), church leaders became increasingly involved in national politics. Bishops enjoyed luxurious banquets in the imperial palaces, where they lavished praise and flattery upon Constantine for the favors he granted Christianity. Constantine passed laws that favored the church, exempted clergy from taxes, appointed Christians to powerful positions in the empire, and used state revenue to pay for church charities and new church buildings. The church’s ambitions for wealth and worldly power only exposed its own moral bankruptcy and lack of spiritual power. Compromises with pagan culture resulted in an unrecognizable church that hid many forms of paganism under the flag of Christianity.

The bishops led public prayers for Constantine’s military and political success, speaking of him as the church’s savior and of his rival, Licinius, as Christianity’s archenemy. They feared that Licinius might revive old persecutions against the church, and in their hostility against him, their devotion to Constantine became fanatical. One historian described it this way: “It was the aim of Constantine to make theology a branch of politics; it was the hope of every bishop in the empire to make politics a branch of theology” (John William Draper, History of the Intellectual Development of Europe [1863], 311). A new version of Christianity resulted from this strange marriage between theology and politics—one that eventually grew into religious tyranny. This week’s lesson will explore scriptural principles that should have stopped the church from ever combining theology and politics. We must continue to heed these warnings today.

### inScribe

Write out Luke 5:27–39 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 27–32. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._