---
title:  Globalist + Nationalist = Trouble!
date:   07/01/2024
---

### inGest

Jesus lived on earth in a politically charged time and set the perfect example of how to reach others amid political tensions and national strife. He began by choosing a rugged and diverse group of men to be His disciples. It was quite surprising that His team stayed together given that they came from different backgrounds, interests, ideologies, and ambitions. The improbable unity of the group became the evidence to the world that God was indeed behind their mission. It was Jesus’ earnest prayer that what divides people in the world would be powerless to divide His disciples (John 17:21).

One of the biggest challenges for this discipleship team was overcoming their starkly opposed political stances. Jesus was asking a fiery nationalist zealot like Simon (Luke 6:15) to work shoulder-to-shoulder with a globalist collaborator with the Roman empire, a despised tax-collector, Levi Matthew (Luke 5:27–29). This issue was readily apparent to all who saw them, and the Pharisees lost no time in pointing it out (v. 30). In asking Jesus why He was eating with tax collectors, the Pharisees were really asking why He was eating with one of His own disciples! When Jesus called His team to the same table, He shattered the barriers of caste, offering equal access and honor to all.

Tax collectors, who were often Jews themselves, were despised for collaborating with a corrupt pagan government that curtailed state rights and robbed Israel of national sovereignty. Adding a tax collector to the group of disciples put a real damper on conversation within the group. The other disciples loved to talk about Israel’s future political glories, but Jesus had invited a traitor of the Jewish nation to join the team—talk about awkward! From that point forward, the only way for the disciples to keep peace within their group would be to avoid some of their favorite topics of discussion.

Jesus wanted to show the world how to have a spirit of selflessness and equality. He started with the basics when He shared a meal with people who belong to opposing factions. For some, the most difficult setting to overcome political hostilities might be gatherings with the family. We know how fast the political tension can rise when catching up with family and friends. Jesus’ example demonstrates the necessity of setting aside economic differences, national loyalties, and political divisions to share a simple meal and strengthen relationships.

If Jesus had allowed His disciples to nominate candidates for His discipleship team, a tax collector never would have made the list. If He had invited any feedback on who He chose to be disciples, we can only imagine the instant shock and concern it would have caused. Jesus selected this unique blend of disciples to illustrate the gospel’s power over politics and national pride. Nearly every war in human history has demonstrated the motivating and uniting power of national loyalty, but something much deeper than nationalism must unite Jesus’ followers. Calling a politically divided team of disciples highlighted that something bigger and better was keeping the group together. By calling a tax collector to join His team, Jesus broke down His disciples’ cultural prejudices, scandalized their national pride, and required them to rise above their opinions.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How should the way Jesus chose His disciples shape the way we choose our leaders? `

`How can we ensure our churches are not mired in politics and national hostilities?`