---
title:  Politically Devastated
date:   08/01/2024
---

### inTerpret

Most of the disciples wanted nothing more than to be free from Rome’s authoritarian rule. They viewed the Roman Empire as the greatest threat to their religious liberty, and rightly so, for Ellen White comments that “the Romans claimed the right of appointing and removing the high priest” in Jerusalem (_The Desire of Ages_ [1898], 30). Most of us today would consider it an egregious violation of our religious liberty for our government to choose our church pastor or conference president for us! It’s no wonder that most of the disciples were eager for Jesus to stand up for their rights and free them from the intolerable government overreach they were enduring.

The disciples clung to the hope that Jesus would deliver them from Roman oppression more fiercely than anything else. They knew the promises in the Old Testament regarding a new kingdom, and they assumed Jesus had come to finally establish that kingdom. The disciples argued repeatedly about who would be first in this new government administration (Luke 9:46; 22:24). James’ and John’s mother even asked Jesus to give her boys top positions in this highly anticipated kingdom (Matt. 20:20–23). Toward the end of Jesus’ life, His disciples’ passion was focused on building this new kingdom on earth.

Large crowds went so far as to try to force Jesus to become king (John 6:15). However, as Jesus’ ministry continued, they began to realize that He would never accept an earthly throne. Many walked away when they came to this realization, never to follow Him again (v. 66). Their devotion to Christ was wrapped up in political ambitions, and when He required them to separate themselves from those ambitions, they separated from Him instead.

The disciples’ hopes were not easily put aside. Their last conversation with Jesus, which took place forty days after His resurrection, was once again about their political dreams (Acts 1:6). The two disciples on the road to Emmaus wondered in devastation why Jesus failed to redeem Israel from foreign domination (Luke 24:21). Nothing made sense in their political framework; they needed to adopt a new worldview to understand the gospel (vv. 25–27).

Jesus’ ultimate answer was explained in one sentence: “My kingdom is not of this world” (John 18:36). Instead of ascending a throne, He ascended a cross. He carried a rugged tree rather than a scepter. He wore a crown of thorns instead of a crown of gold. Though the people expected Him to break them out of the shackles of religious oppression, Jesus had a much grander goal in mind. He does not work according to our ambitions and principles and timelines, and for that we ought to be grateful, for His are far beyond our own.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What political ambitions do we as believers need to abandon to accomplish our mission?`