---
title:  Offended by Jesus
date:   10/01/2024
---

### inVite

Jesus wasn’t merely introducing a few new ideas to His disciples’ old system of thought; He was establishing an entirely new worldview within them. Jesus emphasized the importance of completely breaking from the old when He said, “No one puts a piece from a new garment on an old one; otherwise the new makes a tear, and also the piece that was taken out of the new does not match the old. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; or else the new wine will burst the wineskins and be spilled, and the wineskins will be ruined. But new wine must be put into new wineskins, and both are preserved” (Luke 5:36–38).

Unfortunately, one disciple was unwilling to allow Jesus to change his worldview. Judas never surrendered his political plans. When the crowds were devastated that Jesus wouldn’t make Himself king and bring freedom from Rome (John 6:15), Judas stood with them in spirit. At this critical turning point, many deserted Jesus as they realized He wasn’t going to fulfill their political dreams, Jesus asked the Twelve if they were going to leave Him as well (v. 67). Though Judas chose to continue walking with Jesus physically, his heart was elsewhere (v. 64). He thought he knew what the Messiah ought to do and ought to be: “Christ's oft-repeated statement that His kingdom was not of this world offended Judas. He had marked out a line upon which he expected Christ to work.... Judas wanted more aggressive warfare. He thought that if Jesus would not prevent the disciples from carrying out their schemes, the work would be more successful” (Ellen White, _The Desire of Ages_ [1898], 718).

As sad as it is, Judas’ story clearly shows that Jesus never forces anyone to follow Him. Jesus allows each person to choose their own destiny no matter how desperately He desires a better outcome. Jesus leads and persuades, but never forces. His will can be resisted, and His love can be rejected. Christ did not discipline Judas with a sword or a club. Jesus did not prevent Judas from exiting when he eventually went his own way.

It’s sobering to reflect on why Judas fell away. His apostasy was partly because his political beliefs were too precious to him; he was not willing to give up on the idea of Jesus becoming an earthly king and overthrowing the Romans. He would not relinquish his hopes for a political solution to his nation’s political issues. Judas also believed he was shrewder than the other disciples and wiser than Christ (John 12:4–8). When he betrayed Jesus, he was essentially performing a political stunt designed to force Jesus into asserting His political power. This disheartening story serves as a stark warning that following Jesus must come first. If Jesus is number one in our hearts, we will be ready for a complete overhaul of our thinking. If anything else is number one, we will someday stumble the way Judas stumbled.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`Why does Jesus require us to do more than just incorporate a few good ideas into our old thinking?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`