---
title:  The Too Little, Too Late Complex
date:  14/07/2018
---

**Introduction**: Matt. 28:16–20

Have you ever heard the idiom “A day late and a dollar short”? Well, I took the liberty of looking up what it meant. It means that “someone has both missed an opportunity and been inexcusably unprepared for it.” Since a day is a relatively short amount of time and a dollar is a relatively small amount of money, this idiom generally implies that someone is rather close but still not quite good enough to measure up. The phrase can also sometimes be interpreted as a subtle admonition to adequately prepare for and fulfill given responsibilities and others’ expectations.

During Jesus’ ministry on earth He commissioned 12 men, inviting them to follow Him so that He could make them “fishers of men.” After His death He gave them a final command—to go into all the world (Matt. 28:16–20).

As Adventist Christians we value prophecy revealed and the three angels’ messages, and much like the disciples and early followers of Jesus after Pentecost, we feel an urgency to proclaim Christ’s death, resurrection, and soon coming. There were no endless meetings on who should go where and say what. The early church gave up their earthly possessions so that they could spread the gospel and tell of Jesus’ return. They knew it was imperative that everyone know about Jesus’ love and sacrifice and how liberating life with Jesus could be.

The disciples spent years with Jesus, not understanding His real purpose. However, after His death and after His ascension, with the Holy Spirit filling their lives, they finally became “fishers of men,” making disciples— even in the face of adversity from within and without. How committed are you to allowing the Holy Spirit to pour into your life so that when you tell your family, friends, and coworkers about Jesus, you aren’t a day late and a dollar short?

As Christians, we must follow Christ and take advantage of every opportunity to lead those in our lives who are lost to the Giver of Life. His name is Jesus, and He longs for you to reveal Him to those inside of the church and to those you meet at your job or on the street. We can only do that if, like the early Christians, we make disciples in our modern age. This week, this very day, we hope you find ways to make the early church’s experience a part of your postmodern way of life. Because the truth is that tomorrow very well might be too late.

_Dawnette Chambers, Round Rock, Texas, USA_