---
title:  Meeting the Needs of the Family
date:  17/07/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 2:42–47; 4:1–18; 5:1–11, 29–33, 41, 42

The topic of social justice can often unearth hesitance; with great discord limelighting on social fronts, it’s easy to question our need to participate. Once we step outside, however, we are constantly confronted by opposition of all kinds; and for some it’s a conflict that exists within their own homes. Many Christians debate whether we ought to live outside the arena of social justice, but evidence shows we’re already in it. As family in Christ we should be concerned with the plights and oppressions of our brothers and sisters.

Peter and John made it their mission to share the love of Jesus to a broken world: through fellowship, they created genuine, ongoing relationships and were even willing to face arrest and death in defense of providing to the new believers healing, repentance, and salvation (Acts 4:1–18, 5:33, 41, 42). The believers reciprocated God’s love in action, “selling their possessions” and “distributing the proceeds” (Acts 2:45, ESV) so that the disciples, too, could move freely in Christ.

Ananias and Sapphira presented a severe contrast: they lied, saying that they were giving all the proceeds of their sold land to the disciples when truly they “kept back” a portion of it for themselves (Acts 5:1–11, NASB). In verse 2, the Greek word translated “kept back” means “to abandon,”* and they did exactly that. They abandoned the call to put others ahead of their personal desires, they abandoned the reverence of God through their dishonesty to Him and their disloyalty to their family in Christ, and they abandoned their reflection of the Savior.

In heaven Christ saw our need: He left His comfort zone, communed with us, fought against the injustice of Satan our oppressor, willingly died so that we can live justified in Him, and continues to be our Great Advocate. May Christ’s example teach us to not merely win souls for Him but also guide them to restoration through our love, fellowship, and sacrifice.

**React**

`How can your experiences create platforms for building relationships and sharing Christ’s love?`

_Monique Marisa Norris, Kissimmee, Florida, USA_