---
title:  Less Talking, Acts 2:42 More Walking
date:  18/07/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 2:42

The well-known quote “Preach the gospel at all times, and when necessary use words” is often attributed to Saint Francis of Assisi. This gives us the impression that the gospel should not be primarily bellowed from the top of the steeple but actively prevalent in the streets. However, some have traded in their walking shoes for pew cushions. The Great Commission in Matthew 28:19, 20 tells us to “ ‘Go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you’ ” (NIV). Jesus told us to “Go,” not “Sit.”

We talk a big game, but can we back it up? Better yet, how do we live out the Great Commission in our lives? I believe the answer is in Acts 2:42, “They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer” (NIV). Many “devoted” Christians would point out that the text said “teaching.” Yes, people should be taught what they don’t know, but that is not all the text says. It also uses the word fellowship. Fellowship is not only what we do in the “fellowship hall” while eating at church; fellowshipping according to Acts is blessing others with what you have. It is not blessing others with what you have to spare but blessing them even if it is your last. The question is, How do we fellowship with one another?

First, you must be aware of the needs around you (verse 45). Get active in your community by always looking for ways to help. There is always someone around trying to make the place they live in better. Park cleanups, food drives, repainting store walls, feeding the homeless, back-to-school drives—the possibilities are endless, if only we were to open our eyes to the needs around us.

Second, fellowshipping is also fun. So if you have friends who do not know much about God, go hang out with them before bringing them to church on youth day. The believers in Acts “broke bread together,” and that was their fellowship. Last, we have the permission to teach. Whether we are teaching them ourselves or bringing them to Bible study, AY, youth group, or youth day, whatever the teaching looks like, it will be better received because “people won’t care how much you know until they know how much you care.”

**React**

`1. What can you do in your community?`

`2. What recreational activity can you invite a friend to?`

_Daniel Madden, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada_