---
title:  Scarcity in Community
date:  19/07/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 2:46, 47

Many of the conflicts and anxieties we face in today’s world and in the church are rooted in a fear of scarcity. The fear that we may not be smart enough, cool enough, strong enough, rich enough, righteous enough, attractive enough, or educated enough infects us all at some point in time. Too often, a fear of scarcity not only works to eat away at our individual well-being but also causes our communities to crumble. We have all been tempted to question our and others’ value and worthiness and to avoid the practice of empathy. As a result, our universal longings to belong, be valued, and have what we need to survive go unmet.

In the story of the early church in Acts, we begin to see the gospel of Christ radically transforming ancient Greco-Roman society. We watch the outpouring of the Holy Spirit dismantle societal division along religious, ethnic, cultural, linguistic, gender, and class lines. Acts 2:44–47 says that “all the believers were together and had everything in common. They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved” (NIV).

Almost instantaneously, preaching Jesus led to a fuller, inclusive community where they had all things in common. This shows that a right understanding of who Jesus is should heal our scarcity in community. The gospel of Christ is that we are all God’s children called to and worthy of a mutually sacrificial relationship with Him and with each other. We should not see ourselves as inferior or superior to each other based on our accomplishments, culture, religion, or ethnicity. When preached in truth, the gospel breaks down social barriers and a false sense of insufficiency. Therefore, this story suggests that our social and material scarcity in Christian community may be linked to a lack of clarity about the life and message of Jesus Christ.

**React**

`1. What thoughts, beliefs, and behaviors perpetuate scarcity of community in the church?`

`2. What prevents you from being empathic to yourself and to others?`

_Ailiana K. Denis, Chicago, Illinois, USA_