---
title:  " 'The Strong Wine of Her Terrible [Awful] Sins'"
date:   17/06/2018
---

`The book of Revelation mentions Babylon six times: in Revelation 14:8; Revelation 16:19; Revelation 17:5; and Revelation 18:2, 10, 21. Think of what you learned about the story of Babylon in the Old Testament as you read these six verses in Revelation. What do these verses teach us about Babylon and the things she will do in the last days?`

Some people have said that the Bible is a story about two cities: Jerusalem and Babylon. From start to end, the Bible uses Jerusalem as a word picture for the city of God and His chosen people (Psalm 102:21; Isaiah 52:9; Isaiah 65:19; and Revelation 3:12). Babylon is a word picture for a government that follows false religion, fights against God, hurts people, and takes away their religious and personal freedom.

Think about the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:9). The Hebrew word for “Babel” is the same word used for the kingdom of “Babylon.” Here is something else interesting. In 1 Peter 5:13, Peter sends greetings from the church in “Babylon.” Peter did not mean that he was writing his letter from the old kingdom of Babylon, found in today’s Iraq. Instead, Peter was writing from Rome itself. He used “Babylon” as a word picture for Rome, the capital city of the Roman Kingdom. Rome would soon begin to attack God’s church. We read in Revelation that the Roman Church will attack God’s church in the last days. So, it is very interesting that Peter writes “Babylon” as a name for Rome.

`Read Revelation 14:8 and Revelation 18:3. What do these verses show us about the evil power that Babylon uses to control the people on the earth? How will Babylon use this power against God’s people?`

The book of Revelation is clear. It shows us that Babylon is a word picture for a religious government that is full of sin and evil. Babylon’s evil power spreads over the whole earth. The wording “ ‘the strong wine of her terrible [awful] sins’ ” (Revelation 14:8, NIrV) points to Babylon’s false teachings, evil actions, and the bad things that come from them. Babylon is a power for evil. This evil power already has spread to “all the nations” (NLV). We need to be careful it does not touch us, too.
