---
title:  Babylon Has Fallen!
date:   18/06/2018
---

It is true that Babylon is very evil and her evil spreads to all people everywhere on earth. But there is good news. The book of Revelation teaches us that Babylon’s evil power ends.

`Read Revelation 18:1–10. What do these verses tell us about “Babylon the Great [the Powerful]” (NIrV)?`

The second angel’s message tells us about the fall of Babylon (Revelation 14:8).That message is announced again in Revelation 18:2. The second angel’s message shows us that the false religious power of Babylon becomes very evil. “The Bible tells us what Satan will do before Jesus’ Second Coming. Satan will ‘use this man of sin [the false religious power]. He [the man of sin] will have Satan’s power. He will do strange things and many powerful works that will be false. Those [people] who are lost in sin will be fooled by [believe] the things he can do. They are lost in sin because they did not love the truth that would save them. For [because of] this reason, God will allow them to follow false teaching so they will believe a lie.’ 2 Thessalonians 2:9–11 [NLV]. Babylon’s fall will happen only when everything in these verses comes true. But Babylon’s fall will not happen until the church and the governments on this earth join together. The change will happen little by little. So, the things that Revelation 14:8 says will happen have not all happened. They will happen in the future.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 389, 390; adapted.

When will all those things in Revelation 14:8 come true? Only God knows. But we do know that God will judge Babylon in the future for all the evil she did. “Her sins are as high as heaven. God is ready to punish her for her sins” (Revelation 18:5, NLV). This verse points back to another verse about Babylon in the Old Testament (read Jeremiah 51:9). This verse in Jeremiah helps us understand that God will judge Babylon soon.

Should we be surprised that God will judge Babylon? Of course not. Babylon in the Old Testament was judged (Daniel 5). The Bible makes it very clear in many verses that everyone will have to stand in front of God to be judged. That includes Babylon. How comforting to know we have Jesus to stand for us on the day we are judged (1 John 2:1).
