---
title:  Armageddon
date:   19/06/2018
---

Most people do not know much about the book of Revelation. That includes many Christians, too. But there is one word or word picture from the book of Revelation that most people do know about. What is it? It is the word “Armageddon” (read Revelation 16:16). Even many people who do not believe in God or do not follow a religion know about Armageddon. For many people, the word “Armageddon” means a final fight or last war. The future of the whole earth depends on what happens during this war. Hollywood even made a movie named Armageddon. It was about a giant rock from outer space that almost destroyed Planet Earth. This movie shows us that the idea about the end of this earth also is in the minds of people who do not believe in God or follow a religion.

Many Christians have ideas about Armageddon that are as false as the movie we talked about. Some Christians think Armageddon is going to be a real war with armies in the Middle East in the last days. One false idea about Armageddon says that 200 million soldiers from Asia will enter Northern Israel! Other Christians believe that the final war in the last days will happen in the real place on earth named Megiddo.

But the Bible tells us a totally different story. The Bible shows us that Armageddon is not a final war between countries fighting over money, power, or land. Instead, the war of Armageddon is really a word picture for the spiritual fight in the worldwide war between God and Satan. Armageddon is a religious fight for Planet Earth.

`Read Revelation 16:12–16. What can we learn from these verses about Armageddon?`

First, do you see all the word pictures in Revelation 16:12–16? As an example, we see spirits the same as frogs coming from the mouth of the dragon, the false messenger, and the wild animal power from the sea. These three powers are shown in Revelation 13. The false messenger is a word picture for the wild animal that comes from the ground. We already learned that this animal power that comes from the ground is a word picture for the United States. We also can see the big war between God and Satan in these verses. We do not know exactly how the war of Armageddon will happen. But we do know it is a worldwide war between the armies of God and the armies of Satan.
