---
title:  'Armageddon and Mount [Very High Hill] Carmel: Part 1'
date:   20/06/2018
---

What exactly is this big fight of Armageddon that we have been studying about? First, the name Armageddon may mean “Mountain of Megiddo.” Did you know that there is no mountain in the land area of Megiddo? But the very high hill of Mount Carmel is nearby. So, some Bible experts believe that Mountain of Megiddo means Mount Carmel.

Also, Bible thinkers believe that the story about Elijah at Mount Carmel is a picture story for what Revelation 13 says will happen in the last days.

Yesterday, we learned more about the dragon, the wild animal power from the sea, and the false messenger (the wild animal power that comes from the ground) in Revelation 16:12–16. We saw that Revelation 16:13 talks about the same things that happen in Revelation 13. In lesson 9, we learned about the false three-in-one god that Revelation 13 talks about.

Revelation 13 says that the wild animal power that comes from the ground will start doing miracles. This power “even makes fire come down from heaven to earth while people are watching” (Revelation 13:13, ICB). These “miracles” will lead to a special test that happens between people who worship God and people who worship the “god that looks like the first wild animal” power that comes from the sea (Revelation 13:14, NLV).

`Read the story in 1 Kings 18:1–18. What is happening in this story that shows us some of the things that the book of Revelation says will happen in the last days?`

In many ways, what we see happening in 1 Kings 18:1–18 shows us the worldwide war between God and Satan. Elijah tells us what the problem is in verse 18: God’s people have rejected God’s law. They worship false gods instead of Him. History shows us that this problem is always the reason for the evil on this earth and the evil in God’s people. We can choose to worship “Him Who made heaven and earth and the sea and the places where water comes out of the earth” (Revelation 14:7, NLV). Or we can worship someone or something else. In Revelation 13, the people do not worship the Lord. The people worship the wild animal power that comes from the sea and his false god. We are either on God’s side, or we are on Satan’s. We can choose only one of two sides. God will make clear the two sides to everyone.
