---
title:  'Armageddon and Mount [Very High Hill] Carmel: Part 2'
date:   21/06/2018
---

`Finish reading the story about Elijah in 1 Kings 18:18– 40. What happens? How does the story end? How does this story show us what will happen in a bigger way in the worldwide war between God and Satan in the last days?`

The fight on Carmel was between Elijah and 450 priests. These priests were religious leaders who served the god Baal. Did you see how the side with the evil religious leaders was much larger than the side with the good leaders? The fight between Elijah and Baal’s religious leaders was a test. This test would show Israel the true God. Was it the God who made the heavens and the earth? Or was it Baal, who was really another name for “the dragon” (Revelation 12:8, NLV), or Satan? Baal was another trick Satan used to lead people to worship him (Revelation 12:9).

The priests prayed to Baal to burn up the bull on their altar to him. The priests shouted from morning to noon. At noon Elijah began to make fun of them. “ ‘Shout louder!’ he said. . . . ‘Maybe he’s [he is] sleeping. You might have to wake him up’ ” (1 Kings 18:27, NIrV). The priests acted the same as wild animals. They cut themselves with swords until their blood flowed out. The priests shouted until they became tired. They gave up that evening.

Elijah’s bull was covered in water three times. The water flowed down the bull and flooded the ditch around the altar. Elijah prayed a short prayer. God burned up everything fast, including the altar and the soil under it. It was now clear to everyone who the true God was.

`Read Revelation 16:13 and Revelation 19:20, 21. What happens in these verses to the false religious leaders? How is that the same as what happened to the false religious leaders who served Baal?`

We do not know everything about Armageddon. But we do know one thing about it. We know how Armageddon ends: God’s enemies will be destroyed. God and His people will be proven innocent of doing any wrong.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:1, 2. What does Paul mean in these verses? Why is that truth important for us to remember as we think about what will happen in the future?`
