---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/06/2018
---

“In the Bible story about the war of Armageddon, something interesting happens. This interesting thing has nothing to do with the awful animals that John writes about in Revelation and the things they do. Instead, John shows us parts of the truth about Jesus. Then the word pictures about the wild animals do not seem so important. A truth about Jesus is shown to us in Revelation 16:15: ‘ “Listen! I will come at a time you don’t [do not] expect, like [the same as] a thief. Great [wonderful] blessings belong to those [people] who stay awake and keep their clothes [a word picture for living a holy life with help from Jesus] with them. They will not have to go without clothes and be ashamed for people to see them” ’ (Revelation 16:15, ERV). This verse appears in Revelation right in the middle of the one chapter in the Bible that talks about Armageddon. What does that tell us? It tells us about the importance of getting ready to meet Jesus at the last day after all these things in Revelation happen.

“Another verse that John uses to show us truth about Jesus is Revelation 17:14: ‘ “These kings will fight and make war with the Lamb [Jesus]. But the Lamb [Jesus] will win the war because He is Lord of lords and King of kings. His people are the called [separated from all other people on this earth] and chosen and faithful [loyal] ones” ’(NLV). God’s army is made up of people who do not kill other people with weapons. Instead, they want to stay loyal to God’s work on this earth. The last war of Armageddon is very different from the wars that armies fight today. How? The war of Armageddon is a fight for our minds and our hearts. It is God’s invitation to His people to stay loyal to the Lamb that was killed for them on the cross (Revelation 5:9, 10, 12; Revelation 13:8).”—Jon Paulien, Armageddon at the Door (Hagerstown, MD: Autumn House Publishing: 2008), page 193; adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. What if you know someone who believes that many of the things in Revelation will take place in the real-life places that Revelation uses as word pictures? How could you in a loving way help this person know the right way to understand these verses?`

`2. What are some of Babylon’s teachings? How can we stay away from these false teachings?`
