---
title:  The Bible and Special Messages About the Future
date:   06/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Daniel 2:27–45; Numbers 14:34; Daniel 7:1–25; Daniel 8:14; 1 Corinthians 10:1–13.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “One of the holy angels said to me, ‘It will take 2,300 evenings and mornings. Then the temple will be made holy again’ ” (Daniel 8:14, NIrV).

BIBLE PROPHECIES are special messages about what will happen in the future. These prophecies are very important to us as Seventh-day Adventists. They show who we are and the work that God gave us to do. Prophecy also is proof that the Bible is true. As Jesus says, “ ‘I have told you this now, before it happens. Then when it happens, you will believe’ ” (John 14:29, ERV; read also John 13:19). We must ask: How do we know when a prophecy has come true?

We will use the historicist view to help us to understand prophecy and when it comes true. The historicist view helps us see that prophecy shows us history before it happens. It shows that prophecy starts in the past and continues until God sets up His everlasting kingdom. Both Daniel and John use the historicist view to help them to understand prophecy.

This week, we will study how we can use the historicist view to understand prophecy. “History shows us how prophecy has come true. History shows us how God led the important work for religious changes. History helps us to understand how what is happening on this earth will lead to the final fight in the worldwide war between God and Satan.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 8, page 307, adapted.

_Prophecy shows us history before it happens._
