---
title:  HISTORY AND SPECIAL MESSAGES ABOUT TIME
date:   07/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Seventh-day Adventists use the historicist view to understand Bible prophecy, or special messages about time. As we saw yesterday, the historicist view shows that prophecy starts in the past and continues until God sets up His everlasting kingdom. The historicist view also shows us that many of the most important prophecies in the Bible show us human history, from the beginning of time to the end. These prophecies show us that the past, present, and the future are all connected.

`Read about King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream in Daniel 2:27–45. What parts of the dream show us that the kingdoms on the earth come up one at a time? How does the dream also show us that each kingdom starts right away as soon as the other kingdom ends, with no time break in between them? How does the Bible show us how to understand end-time prophecy?`

Do you see that Nebuchadnezzar’s kingdom is shown as the head of gold? With this word picture, Daniel tells us that Babylon is the 1st kingdom (Daniel 2:38). Then Daniel says, “ ‘Another kingdom will come after you, but it will not be as great [powerful] as your kingdom. Next, a third kingdom will rule over [control] the earth—that is the bronze [brass] part’ ” (Daniel 2:39, ERV). Then a 4th kingdom will come (Daniel 2:40). So, the Bible shows us that these kingdoms come one after the other without any breaks in time. The statue itself shows us this information. Each of the kingdoms is shown by a different part of the body. All the body parts are connected from the head down to the toes. This shows that the kingdoms are connected, just the same as time and history are connected.

In Daniel 7 and 8, we do not see a statue. We see different animals. But the same message is taught in chapters 2, 7, and 8. The Bible shows us four kingdoms on the earth (three in Daniel 8). These kingdoms start in Old Testament times. Then they continue from that time to the present and into the future when Jesus starts His everlasting kingdom on earth.

So, the statue in Daniel 2 and the dreams in Daniel 7 and Daniel 8 give us an important foundation. They help us to understand how to explain Bible prophecy.

`Read John 14:29. What does Jesus say that helps us to understand the reason that God gives us prophecy?`

_Nebuchadnezzar’s kingdom is shown as the head of gold (Daniel 2:38)._
