---
title:  THE YEAR-DAY RULE
date:   08/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

One of the most important tools we have for understanding prophecy, or special messages about time, is the year-day rule. Many Bible thinkers have used this rule for hundreds of years to understand the prophecies in the books of Daniel and Revelation. We get the year-day rule from several important Bible verses. Plus, the prophecies also help us to see when we need to use this rule.

`Read Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:6. How does God help us to understand the year-day rule in these verses and how it works?`

In these verses, we see very clearly the idea of the year-day rule. But how do we know when to use it and when not to? Why do we use the year-day rule with the prophecies in Daniel 7:25; Daniel 8:14; Revelation 11:2, 3; Revelation 12:6, 14; and Revelation 13:5?

Three other things in the Bible support our using the year-day rule to explain these prophecies of Daniel and Revelation. These three things are (1) word pictures, or symbols; (2) long periods of time that last for hundreds and hundreds of years; and (3) special words that are used in a way that we would not normally mean them.

(1) The animals and horns in these prophecies are symbols. They show us kingdoms. So, the animals and horns are not real. They help us to see that the times in these  prophecies also are symbols. They are not real.

(2) Many of the kingdoms shown in the time prophecies cover hundreds and hundreds of years. This can be true only if the time prophecies are symbols. So, we must use the year-day rule to understand time in these prophecies. Then the time in the prophecies fits with the things that happen in the prophecies. This agreement cannot happen if the time prophecies mean only real days, months, or years.

(3) Some words in the prophecies have special meanings that they do not normally have. These words are often strange. They show us the special time periods in the prophecies. The special words help us see that the time in the prophecies is not real but a symbol. Here is an example from Daniel 8:14, ICB: the “ ‘2,300 evenings and mornings.’ ”

This is not a normal way to talk about time. So, this special wording shows us that the time in these prophecies are symbols.

_The animals and the horns are not real. They show us kingdoms. They help us see that the years in the time prophecies also are symbols._
