---
title:  WHO IS THE LITTLE HORN?
date:   09/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

For many hundreds of years, Protestant thinkers taught that the little horn in Daniel 7 and Daniel 8 was the Roman Catholic Church. Why did they believe that?

`Read about the little horn in Daniel 7:1–25 and Daniel 8:1–13. What do we learn about the little horn in these verses? How can we be sure about who it really is?`

There are seven things we learn about the little horn in Daniel 7 and Daniel 8. (1) The little horn is a word picture for a kingdom. (2) The little horn harms people (Daniel 7:21, 25; Daniel 8:10, 24). (3) The little horn brags about itself. It tries to steal God’s power (Daniel 7:8, 20, 25; Daniel 8:10, 11, 25). (4) It makes special attacks against God’s people (Daniel 7:25; Daniel 8:24). (5) The little horn works for a long time (Daniel 7:25; read also Daniel 8:13, 14). (6) It works until the end of time (Daniel 7:25, 26; Daniel 8:17, 19). (7) The little horn is destroyed by God (Daniel 7:11, 26; Daniel 8:25).

History shows us that the 1st kingdom in the book of Daniel is Babylon (Daniel 2:38). The 2nd kingdom is Media-Persia (Daniel 8:20). The 3rd kingdom is Greece (Daniel 8:21). History is very clear about the kingdom that comes next: Rome. In Daniel 2, the iron is a word picture, or symbol, of Rome. The iron shows that Rome continues into the feet of iron mixed with clay. This shows us that Rome continues until the end of time. The little horn of Daniel 7 comes from the 4th animal, or kingdom, and continues to be part of this 4th animal.

What power came out of the kingdom of Rome and continues to have power on the earth for at least 1,260 years (read Daniel 7:25)? Only one power fits history and this prophecy: the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church came into power among ten tribes, or family groups, in Europe. The Roman Catholic Church destroyed three of these tribes (Daniel 7:24). This new power was “different from the kings who ruled [had power] before him” (Daniel 7:24, ERV). It says things “ ‘against God Most High’ ” (Daniel 7:25, ERV). This power “ ‘set itself up to be as great [important] as the commander of the Lord’s army’ ” (Daniel 8:11, NIrV). It did this by removing Jesus’ work and replacing it with the pope, who attacked God’s people.

_The little horn brags about itself._
