---
title:  GOD’S WORK AS OUR JUDGE IN HEAVEN’S TEMPLE
date:   10/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Before the 1800s, Christians did not really understand the 2,300 days and the Investigative Judgment. The investigative judgment is the time when God will judge His people. It happens after 1798 and before the Second Coming.

`Read Daniel 7:9–14 and Daniel 8:14, 26.  What do these verses tell us about what happens in heaven?`

The Roman Catholic Church attacks God’s people during the Dark Ages. This time period ends in 1798 when Napoleon’s General Berthier takes the pope prisoner (Revelation 13:3). After that, Daniel 7 and Daniel 8 show us that God starts His work in heaven as our Judge. As we just saw, this work is named the Investigative Judgment. In a dream about the future, Daniel saw God doing this work: the “Court was ready to begin” (Daniel 7:10, ERV). Then Daniel saw “someone who looked like [the same as] a human being. He was coming with clouds in the sky. He came near God, who has been alive forever” (Daniel 7:13, ICB). Again, this final judgment happens after 1798 and before the Second Coming of Jesus.

The judgment in Daniel 7 closely is connected to God’s work of making heaven’s temple clean from sin, as we read in Daniel 8:14. Daniel 7 and Daniel 8 are talking about the same thing. Another name for God’s cleaning work in heaven’s temple is the Day of Atonement. Daniel 8:14 shows us that the Day of Atonement starts after the 2,300 evening-mornings, or days. The year-day rule helps us to understand that these days equal 2,300 real years. They start in 457 b.c. and end in 1844.

Daniel 9:24 shows us the start date for the 2,300 years. This verse tells us that the 70 weeks (490 years) is “chatak,” or “cut off,” from the 2,300 days. The 70 weeks (490 years) can be cut off from the 2,300 days only if they both are part of the same prophecy, or special message about time. The next verse, Daniel 9:25, tells us when the 70 weeks (490 years) and the 2,300 days start. They “ ‘will begin when an order is given to rebuild Jerusalem and make it like new again’ ” (Daniel 9:25, NIrV). The order to rebuild Jerusalem is given during “the seventh year that Artaxerxes was king” (Ezra 7:7, NIrV), or 457 b.c. When we add 2,300 years to 457 b.c., we come to 1844. This is the time when Jesus entered into the Most Holy Room of heaven’s temple to start His work of cleaning it from all our sins.

_In 1844, Jesus entered into the Most Holy Room of heaven’s temple to start His work of cleaning it from all our sins._
