---
title:  A SPECIAL BIBLE RULE
date:   11/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The symbols, or word pictures, that we see in Daniel and Revelation have only one meaning. But sometimes a symbol in the Bible will have more than one meaning. That is, the persons or happenings of the Old Testament show us real things in history first. But then they also show us a bigger truth that will happen in the future. This double meaning is named typology. Jesus Himself uses typology to help explain the Bible. So do the New Testament writers. We even see Old Testament writers using typology to help explain the Bible. In typology, a symbol has two parts: (1) the type and (2) the antitype. The type is a real person, place, or thing. The antitype is the special meaning that this person, place, or thing will have in the future.

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–13. What is Paul talking about in these verses? What is Paul warning the Corinthian church about? What lesson is there in these verses for us today?`

Paul shows us that everything that happened to the Israelites in the desert is a symbol of our own experience as Christians. Paul shows us the reason that God told Moses to write what happened to Israel. It was so that we could learn from their mistakes as we live in the end times.

**Read the verses below. Write down each type, or symbol. Then write what the antitype of each symbol is. That is, write down the symbol’s future meaning.**

`Matthew 12:40`

`John 19:36`

`John 3:14, 15`

`Romans 5:14`

`John 1:29`

In each example, Jesus and the New Testament writers use types and antitypes to help explain prophecy, or special messages about the future. In this way, these men show us a deeper meaning for each symbol that is bigger than what really happened in the past.

_In typology, a symbol has two parts: (1) the type and (2) the antitype. The type is the real person, place, or thing. The antitype is the special meaning that this person, place, or thing will have in the future. Jonah in the whale for three days is a type or symbol, or antitype, of Jesus in the tomb for three days (Matthew 12:40)._
