---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   12/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Clifford Goldstein, 1844 Made Simple (Boise, ID: Pacific Press, 1988) to learn more about the 2,300 day prophecy, or special message about time.

Study this chart below:

| | |
|---|---|
| Daniel 7 | Daniel 8 |
| Babylon (lion) | ________________ |
| Media-Persia (bear) | Media-Persia (male sheep) |
| Greece (leopard) | Greece (he-goat) |
| Kingdom of Rome (4th animal) | Kingdom of Rome (horn moves across the earth) |
| Roman Catholic Church (Little Horn)| Roman Catholic Church (horn moves up, in the direction of heaven) |
| God’s work as Judge | God cleans heaven’s temple |

This chart shows us an important idea. God’s work as Judge, in Daniel 7, is the same thing as God’s work of cleaning heaven’s temple in Daniel 8:14. God’s work as Judge in heaven leads to His everlasting kingdom at the end of human history. So, we have powerful proof from the Bible for why Daniel 8:14 is so important and what it means.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Read Daniel 2. In this chapter, we see one kingdom come after another. God gives us the historicist view to explain Bible prophecy. As we learned, the historicist view shows us that prophecy starts in the past and continues until God sets up His everlasting kingdom. These prophecies show us that the past, present, and the future are all connected. Sadly, very few Christians outside of Adventists believe in the historicist teaching anymore. Why does that make our end-time message even more special?`

`2. How well do you understand the 2,300-day prophecy in Daniel 8:14? If you do not understand it, why not take the time to learn it now and share it with your class?`

`3. Read Daniel 7:18, 21, 22, 25, 27. Do you see what happens to God’s people in these verses? What does the little horn do to them? What does the Lord do for His people? What is the good news for God’s people in the judgment, or God’s work as their Judge? What does the judgment give God’s people?`

_God’s work as Judge in heaven leads to His everlasting kingdom at the end of human history._
