---
title:  Suffering and Glory
date:  31/08/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:7–18. Make a list of Paul’s sufferings. How did he endure his sufferings?`

John Huss, the great reformer of the old Bohemia, once said about Jesus, “He is Master of the world, and we are contemptible mortals—yet He suffered! Why, then, should we not suffer also, particularly when suffering is for us a purification?”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 105.

The apostle Paul manifested centuries earlier the same willingness to suffer for Christ. He knew that he was nothing more than a fragile pot made of clay (2 Cor. 4:7). He constantly felt hard-pressed, perplexed, persecuted, and struck down, and yet he was not crushed, in despair, forsaken, or destroyed (2 Cor. 4:8, 9). He was willing to carry “in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus” would be manifested in him (2 Cor. 4:10, 11, ESV).

By “death of Jesus,” Paul probably meant the sufferings that he mentioned in the previous verses. In turn, in an immediate sense, the phrase “life of Jesus” likely refers to the deliverances from death or the spiritual power for the present life. But, ultimately, this is a reference to the resurrection (2 Cor. 4:12).

Interestingly, the phrase “death and life” occurs three times in 2 Corinthians 4:10–12. This is a reminder that, in the present age, life is mingled with death. However, in the future glory, we will experience life in the absence of death (Rev. 20:14, Rev. 21:4).

Most important, 2 Corinthians 4:7–18 shows that the gospel is preached through fragile human beings so that the glory goes to God alone (2 Cor. 4:15). Not infrequently, missionaries suffer in the course of their missionary work. However, our affliction here is light and momentary when compared to that eternal weight of glory waiting for us (2 Cor. 4:17). The believer lives by faith, not by sight (2 Cor. 4:18, 2 Cor. 5:7).

This hope in the future life captured the mind of Paul so much that he keeps talking about it in the flow of the passage (2 Cor. 5:1–10). He refers to his mortal body by the metaphor of an earthly house. Conversely, the “building from God” is a metaphor for the resurrected body (2 Cor. 5:1), the great hope for believers of all ages.

`Why is it so important that, amid whatever we are going through now, we always keep the hope of the resurrection, our resurrection (1 Cor. 15:52), before us?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Praise the Lord, that we have a compassionate, tender High Priest that can be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. We do not expect rest here. No, no. The way to heaven is a cross-bearing way; the road is straight and narrow, but we will go forward with cheerfulness knowing that the King of glory once trod this way before us.\
We will not complain of the roughness of the way, but will be meek followers of Jesus, treading in His footsteps. He was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He for our sakes became poor that we through His poverty might be made rich. We will rejoice in tribulation and keep in mind the recompense of reward, the “far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.”\
We will not have a murmuring thought because we have trials. God’s dear children always had them, and every trial well endured here, will only make us rich in glory. I crave the suffering part. I would not go to heaven without suffering if I could, and see Jesus who suffered so much for us to purchase for us so rich an inheritance; and to see the martyrs who laid down their lives for the truth, and the sake of Jesus. No, no. Let me [be] perfected through sufferings. I long to be a partaker with Christ of His sufferings, for if I am, I know I shall be a partaker with Him of His glory. Jesus is our pattern. Let us study to have our lives as near like Christ’s as possible.\
My soul cries out after the living God. My very being longs after Him. Oh, for to reflect His lovely image perfectly! Oh, for to be wholly consecrated to Him! Oh, how hard it is for dear self to die. We can rejoice in a whole Saviour; one who saves us from all sin. We can be shut in with God where we can daily say, “I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me” “to will and to do of his good pleasure.” Glory be to God. I know that my life is hid with Christ in God.\
The curtain has been lifted. I have seen the rich reward laid up for the saints. I have had a taste of the joys of the world to come, and it has spoiled this world for me. My affections, my interests, hopes, my all is in heaven. I long to see the King in His beauty, Him whom my soul loveth. Heaven, sweet heaven. “I long to be there; and the thought that ‘tis near, makes me almost impatient for Christ to appear.” Praise the Lord for a good hope through Jesus Christ of immortality and eternal life.—Reflecting Christ, p. 350.