---
title:  Call to Holiness
date:  02/09/2026
---

In 2 Corinthians 6:3–10, Paul keeps encouraging the Corinthians to be reconciled to God. He presents a long list of hardships and triumphs to show what it means to be a follower of Christ and a minister of God. In short, he lists difficult situations (2 Cor. 6:4, 5), virtues of character (2 Cor. 6:6), equipment for ministry (2 Cor. 6:7), and vicissitudes of ministry (2 Cor. 6:8–10). After instructing the members in Corinth to be reconciled to God, Paul appeals for them to live a holy life, and to do so by separating themselves from the harmful influence of unbelievers and from unclean things (2 Cor. 6:14–17).

`Read 2 Corinthians 6:11–7:1. According to this passage, what does a holy life look like?`

Paul emphasizes in this passage the importance of affection and love within the church (1 Cor. 6:11–13). The evidence that people have been reconciled to God is that they seek reconciliation with one another. Indeed, they become, as it were, agents of horizontal reconciliation.

Next, the call to holiness is given by means of six appeals, namely, (1) “_Do not be_ unequally _yoked_ together with unbelievers” (2 Cor. 6:14, NKJV); (2) “ ‘_Come out_ from among them’ ” (2 Cor. 6:17, NKJV); (3) “ ‘_Be separate_’ ” (2 Cor. 6:17, NKJV); (4) “ ‘_Do not touch_ what is unclean’ ” (2 Cor. 6:17, NKJV); (5) “_Let us cleanse_ ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit” (2 Cor. 7:1, ESV); (6) “_Make holiness perfect_ in the fear of God” (2 Cor. 7:1, RSV; _emphasis supplied_). These exhortations show that a holy God requires a holy life and separation from idolatry.

On the other hand, the passage also brings seven promises that highlight the role of the Christian church as a holy temple: (1) “ ‘I will dwell in them’ ”; (2) “ ‘[I will] walk among them’ ”; (3) “ ‘I will be their God’ ”; (4) “ ‘They shall be My people’ ”; (5) “ ‘I will receive you’ ”; (6) “ ‘I will be a Father to you’ ”; (7) “ ‘You shall be My sons and daughters’ ” (2 Cor. 6:16, 17, 18, NKJV).

Notice that the four promises in 2 Corinthians 6:16 are the basis for the three imperatives in 2 Corinthians 6:17 (see the word “therefore” at the beginning of 2 Corinthians 6:17). This demonstrates that holiness is not the result of one’s efforts but the work of the Holy Spirit in the heart. Although holiness results from God, believers must do their part and reject idolatry and every impure practice.

`What do God’s promises in 2 Corinthians 6:16–18 tell us about what holiness is?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ would elevate and refine man’s mind, purifying it from all dross, that he may appreciate the love that is without a parallel.\
Through repentance, faith, and good works he may perfect a righteous character, and claim, through the merits of Christ, the privi­leges of the sons of God. The principles of divine truth, received and cherished in the heart, will carry us to a height of moral excellence that we had not deemed it possible for us to reach. . . . “And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.”\
Holiness of heart and purity of life were the great subjects of the teachings of Christ. In His sermon on the mount, after specifying what must be done in order to be blessed, and what must not be done, He says, “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.” Perfection, holiness,—nothing short of this would give them success in carrying out the principles He had given them. Without this holiness, the human heart is selfish, sinful, and vicious. Holiness will lead its possessor to be fruitful, and abound in all good works. He will never become weary in well-doing; neither look for promotion in this world; but he will look forward to be promoted by the Majesty of heaven when He shall exalt His sanctified and holy ones to His throne. . . . Holiness of heart will produce right actions.\
As God is pure in His sphere, so man is to be pure in his. And he will be pure if Christ is formed within, the hope of glory; for he will imitate Christ’s life and reflect His character.\
The princely dignity of the Christian character will shine forth as the sun, and the beams of light from the face of Christ will be reflected upon those who have purified themselves even as He is pure.\
Purity of heart will lead to purity of life.—Our Father Cares, p. 13.

Our hearts are evil, and we cannot change them.... Education, culture, the exercise of the will, human effort, all have their proper sphere, but here they are powerless. They may produce an outward correctness of behaviour, but they cannot change the heart; they cannot purify the springs of life. There must be a power working from within, a new life from above, before men can be changed from sin to holiness. That power is Christ. His grace alone can quicken the lifeless faculties of the soul, and attract it to God, to holiness.\
No man receives holiness as a birthright, or as a gift from any other human being. Holiness is the gift of God through Christ. Those who receive the Saviour become sons of God. They are His spiritual children, born again, renewed in righteousness and true holiness. Their minds are changed. With clearer vision they behold eternal realities. They are adopted into God’s family, and they become conformed to His likeness, changed by His Spirit from glory to glory. From cherishing supreme love for self, they come to cherish supreme love for God and for Christ.... Accepting Christ as a personal Saviour, and following His example of self-denial—this is the secret of holiness.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 120.