---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/09/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Message Heeded,” pp. 323–334, in The Acts of the Apostles.

Last week, we read the above cited passage in _The Acts of the Apostles_. It is worth rereading it. This time, dwell a little bit more on the parts referring to Paul’s severe letter, his feelings upon writing it, and his joy upon receiving the good news about the sincere repentance of the addressees. Then, reflect on what this tells us about the authenticity of Paul’s ministry and what lessons we can apply to our work for Christ.

“We are to reveal to the universe, to the world fallen and to worlds unfallen, that there is forgiveness with God, that through the love of God we may be reconciled to God. Man repents, becomes contrite in heart, believes in Christ as his atoning sacrifice, and realizes that God is reconciled to him.”—Ellen G. White, Special Testimonies On Education, p. 223.

“As a church, we have received great light. This light the Lord has entrusted to us for the benefit and blessing of the world. To us has been given the ministry of reconciliation. With power from on high we are to beseech men to be reconciled to God.”—White, Letter 32, 1903.

Once reconciled to God, people must seek holiness. Commenting on 2 Corinthians 7:1, Ellen G. White hints at what Paul meant by “perfecting holiness in the fear of God” (2 Cor. 7:1, NKJV). She says Paul sought to help the new converts “to become self-reliant, growing Christians, strong in faith, ardent in zeal, and wholehearted in their consecration to God and to the work of advancing His kingdom.”—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 201.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul refers to us as “jars of clay” containing the gospel treasure (2 Cor. 4:7, ESV). How can the fact that the human condition is weak, frail, and filled with limitations enhance rather than undermine the proclamation of the gospel?`

`What does it mean to be a “new creation” (2 Cor. 5:17, NKJV)? How does this affect our daily lives? How has Christ made you a new creature?`

`In 2 Corinthians 6:4, 5, Paul provides a long list of hardships for the gospel’s sake. How did he respond to his sufferings (see 2 Cor. 6:6, 7)? How does this help you respond to yours?`

`Paul contrasts godly sorrow with worldly sorrow (2 Cor. 7:10). In what manner may sorrow relate to repentance? How would you describe godly sorrow in contrast to worldly sorrow?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Reflecting Christ, “Christians to Move Onward and Upward,” May 30, p. 164.\
In Heavenly Places, “Complete in Him,” February 29, p. 66.\