---
title: 'The Good News About God, Our Judge'
date: 22/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Psalm 51:1–4; Revelation 20:12; Daniel 7:9, 10, 13; Revelation 4:2–4.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The angel said in a loud voice, ‘Fear [respect] God and give him praise. The time has come for God to judge all people. Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs [places where the water comes out of the earth] of water’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV).

The Bible teaches us that God is our Judge. Not only that, but also God is “ ‘the Judge of the whole earth’ ” (Genesis 18:25, NIrV; also read Psalm 58:11; Psalm 94:2; Psalm 98:9). Sooner or later, God will judge everyone, both the dead and the living. As Paul wrote, “So each of us will have to [must] explain to God about the things we do” (Romans 14:12, ERV).

Scary thought, right? Every person who ever lived will answer to God for everything he or she did. God knows everything. “God will judge everything people do. That includes everything they try to hide. He’ll judge everything, whether [to decide if] it’s good or evil” (Ecclesiastes 12:14, NIrV).

In the end, God’s work as Judge will show His love and mercy to everyone in heaven and on earth. We will see that God is both fair and full of mercy when He judges the saved and the lost.

This week, we will study about God’s work as Judge in the end times. We also will look at what happens to God’s loyal people during “the time when God will judge everyone” (Acts 24:25, NIrV).