---
title: 'The Good News And God’s Work As Judge'
date: 23/04/2023
---

The book of Revelation shows what will happen at the end of the worldwide war between God and Satan. This war started before God made the earth. Lucifer started the war. Lucifer was a beautiful angel who turned against God. Lucifer accused God. Lucifer said God wasn’t fair or wise. The book of Revelation shows that God’s work as Judge will show that Lucifer is wrong to blame God for anything.

`Revelation 14:7 says: “The angel said in a loud voice, ‘Fear [respect] God and give him praise. The time has come for God to judge all people. Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs [places where the water comes out of the earth] of water’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). Do you see what the angel says right after he talks about the Good News (Revelation 14:6)? The angel talks about God’s work as Judge. How is the Good News connected with God’s work as Judge?`

The Good News and God’s work as Judge are both parts of the First Angel’s Message. The two parts can’t be separated. What does that show us? It shows us that without the Good News, we would have no hope when God judges us. As we will see, the Good News is our only hope when we are judged.

During God’s work as Judge, the people who live on other planets will see that God did everything possible to save every last person on earth. God’s work as Judge shows us that He is both fair and full of mercy. His work as Judge shows us both His love and His law. God’s work as Judge also shows His love to save us from sin.

God’s work as Judge is part of His answer to the sin problem. In the worldwide war between good and evil, God answered Satan’s lies. How? Jesus died on the cross. During God’s work as Judge, He will show us that He did everything possible to save us and to lead us to the cross for forgiveness. The record books in heaven will be open at this time (read Daniel 7:10). We are precious to God. So, He will give everyone in heaven a chance to look at the choices we made to follow the Holy Spirit. God gave us His Spirit to lead us to Jesus.

`Read carefully Psalm 51:1–4. Look at verse 4. How do these verses help us understand God’s work as our Judge?`