---
title: 'God, Our Judge, Is Full Of Mercy'
date: 24/04/2023
---

(Revelation 20:12)

The cross and God’s work as Judge show that God is both fair and full of mercy. God’s law was broken. The punishment for breaking the law is death. So, the sinner must die. “When you sin, the pay you get is death” (Romans 6:23, NIrV). But God also is full of mercy. So, when you accept His forgiveness, He “gives you the gift of eternal [everlasting] life” (Romans 6:23, NIrV). If God could change His law, then Jesus didn’t need to die. Jesus’ death on the cross shows us that God’s law can’t be changed.

`How are we judged? Read Revelation 20:12 for the answer. What is the connection between our good behavior and our being saved?`

Our behavior shows our choices. Our behavior also shows if we are loyal to God. Paul says: “You have been saved by grace because you believe. You did not save yourselves. It was a gift from God. You cannot brag that you are saved by the work you have done” (Ephesians 2:8, 9, ICB). When Jesus saves us, He changes us. “We are His work. He has made us to belong to Christ Jesus so we can work for Him. He planned that we should do this [good work]” (Ephesians 2:10, NLV). The Holy Spirit helps us do good works. But our good behavior doesn’t save us. Our behavior only shows that our faith is real. God’s work as Judge will show everything that is in our hearts.

Read this powerful quote from Ellen G. White about the Good News and God’s work as our Judge: “The Bible shows us that God’s people stand in dirty clothes before God. He is our Judge. This word picture shows us that we must empty our hearts of all pride. All Christians should make their hearts clean. We should obey God’s law. We should not have any pride in our hearts. The more we look at the perfect life of Jesus, the more we will want to be the same as He is in our hearts. We will see that all the good in our hearts comes from Jesus. We will see we are sinners. At the same time, we will depend on Jesus. Jesus makes us holy. Jesus is the only One who can answer Satan when he accuses us of sins. Jesus goes to God for us and argues our case in court. Jesus tells Satan to stop blaming us. Jesus can do this work for us because He died for us. We are saved because of Jesus’ holy life, not because of our good behavior.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages 471, 472, adapted.