---
title: 'A Beautiful Scene'
date: 25/04/2023
---

The books of Daniel and Revelation show us what will happen in the end times. So, we should study these books together. The book of Revelation announces that we are living in the time when God will judge the earth. The book of Daniel shows us when God’s work as Judge started.

In Daniel 7, God shows Daniel the history of this earth. We also learn about the different kingdoms that control the earth. These kingdoms include Babylon, Media-Persia, Greece, and Rome. Then the kingdom of Rome ends. After that, God’s people suffer because of their faith. Their enemies attack them for 1,260 years (Daniel 7:25; also read Revelation 12:6, 14). Then God shows Daniel a powerful scene that will happen in the future. God will make everything right. Then God will give Jesus the kingdom that belongs to Him. This kingdom continues forever.

`Read Daniel 7:9, 10, 13. What does Daniel see in these verses? What does God decide to do? What happens at this time? Read Daniel 7:14, 26, 27 for the answer.`

God decides what will happen to everyone who lived. This decision happens in heaven’s court. God’s love wins. His law wins, too. This scene is one of the most beautiful scenes in the whole Bible. The good news is that everything ends very well for God’s people. These people serve Him in faith. They put on Jesus’ holy life the same as clothes.

Jesus comes to His Father in heaven. Everyone in heaven is watching. Angels crowd around God’s throne. All the people from other planets watch, too. They are surprised and filled with wonder as they watch God do His work as Judge. This worldwide war between good and evil will soon end. This war has continued for so long. The fight for God’s throne will be decided forever.

`Daniel was right about the kingdoms that came and went, just as God promised. Daniel also explained that the final kingdom will continue forever. Why should we believe Daniel’s message in the Bible about this final kingdom?`