---
title: 'The Holy Room In Heaven’s Temple'
date: 26/04/2023
---

(Revelation 4:2–4)

In Revelation 4, John sees an open door in heaven. Jesus gives John an invitation: “ ‘Come up here. I will show you what must happen after these things’ ” (Revelation 4:1, NLV). Jesus opens the door to heaven’s temple and invites John to look inside. There, God will show John what will happen in the future in the war between good and evil. We also can look with John to see God’s plan to save us.

`Read Revelation 4:2–4. What is happening in these verses? Compare these verses with Daniel 7. How do both of these verses show us God’s work as Judge?`

God the Father sits on His throne in heaven. Angels stand all around Him. There is thunder and lightning. Thunder and lightning are word pictures for God’s work as Judge. We also see that 24 spiritual leaders sit around God’s throne.

Who are these 24 spiritual leaders? In Old Testament times, the spiritual leaders who served Israel were separated into 24 groups. These groups of leaders took turns serving God in His temple. The spiritual leaders went to God for the people. In 1 Peter 2:9, Peter announces that God chose New Testament Christians as His new group of spiritual leaders. So, maybe the 24 elders are part of the group of people that woke up from the dead with Jesus and went to heaven with Him (Matthew 27:52; Ephesians 4:7, 8).

Whoever they are, they give us hope. The 24 spiritual leaders show us that some of the people whom God saves are around the throne of God. Satan tried to get these people to sin, just as he tries to get us to sin. But these people won the fight against sin because of God’s mercy. The Holy Spirit helped them win. So, the 24 spiritual leaders wear white clothes. These clothes show us that Jesus’ holy life covers them and that God forgives their sins. The 24 spiritual leaders wear gold crowns on their heads. Their crowns show that they won in the fight against evil. Now they are part of heaven’s royal group of faith-filled followers.

God sits on a throne in heaven. Angels and other people stand around the throne. Soon, all the angels start to sing a song of praise: “They say: ‘Our Lord and God, it is right for you to have praise and honour and power [control]. You made all things. They were made and have life because you wanted them’ ” (Revelation 4:11, WE).