---
title: 'Jesus Is Worthy'
date: 27/04/2023
---

In Revelation 5:1–5, we see a throne. We also see rolled-up paper, or a book, with writing on the front and back. This book has seven locks on it. No one in heaven or on earth can break the locks and open the book. John starts to cry because no one can open the book. Then one of the 24 spiritual leaders gives John encouraging news. Jesus, the Lamb of God, is worthy to open the book.

In Revelation 5:5, John sees the answer to the sin problem. John sees the only way that we can be accepted by God when He does His final work as Judge. John tells us, “One of the leaders said to me, ‘Stop crying. See! The Lion from the family group of Judah has power [control] and has won. He can open the book and break its seven locks. He is of [from] the family of David.’ I saw a Lamb standing in front of the twenty-four leaders. He was before the throne and in front of the four living beings. He looked as if He had been killed” (Revelation 5:5, 6, NLV).

`Read Revelation 5:8–12 about the announcement that Jesus is worthy to open the book. What does everyone in heaven do when they hear this announcement?`

Jesus takes the book. Jesus died to save everyone. So, only He can open the book. The book is about God’s work as Judge. When Jesus takes the book, all the people in heaven shout with joy. They praise God. Why else is Jesus worthy to open the book? Jesus refused to sin when Satan tried to get Him to do evil. Jesus died on Calvary’s cross. Jesus woke up from the dead. Jesus works for us in heaven as our Spiritual Leader. He goes to God to get help for us. Jesus saves everyone who chooses with faith to accept His mercy. So, God’s work as Judge is wonderful news for God’s people. God’s work as Judge is the beginning of the end of sin. God’s work as Judge shows us that God will put an end to sin, evil, and death.

Is there any better news than this news? Jesus fights for us, forgives our sins, and makes us new. Jesus pardons us, changes us, and helps us live holy lives. So, we don’t need to fear God’s work as Judge. God’s work as Judge is not about showing us that we are awful. God’s work as Judge is meant to show us that God is good and full of mercy.