---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 28/04/2023
---

Read this powerful quote from Ellen G. White about God’s work as Judge in the end times.

“Our only hope is God’s mercy. The only thing that will protect us is prayer. Joshua prayed before the Angel, who was Jesus. In the same way, God’s end-time church will pray for Jesus to save them. God’s people will empty their hearts of all pride. Their faith will be strong. Jesus is their Lawyer. God’s people know that their lives are full of sin. God’s people see that they are weak and not worthy. They are ready to give up all hope. Satan stands ready to accuse them. In the same way, Satan stood ready to accuse Joshua. Satan points to the dirty clothes that God’s people wear. These clothes are a word picture for their behavior. Satan says that God’s people are weak. Satan accuses them of doing evil things. Satan says God’s people aren’t thankful. They aren’t the same as Jesus at all. They have not honored Jesus, their Savior. . . . God’s people have made many mistakes. Satan knows very well the sins he has caused them to do. Satan shows God these sins. Satan makes these sins look worse than they really are. Satan announces, ‘Will God throw me and my angels out of heaven and reward the ones who did the same sins we did? You can’t do this, O Lord, and be fair. You will not be a holy and fair Judge then. You must punish them for their crimes.’ Yes, Jesus’ followers have sinned. But they haven’t given their lives to the control of Satan. God’s people gave up their sins. God’s people went to the Lord. They emptied their hearts of all pride. They were sorry for their sins. Jesus, their Lawyer, goes to God to get help for them. They hurt Jesus by not thanking Him for everything He’s done for them. Jesus knows their sin. But He also knows they have given up their sins. So, what does Jesus do? He announces, ‘May God correct you, Satan. I gave My life for these people. I have marks on My hands from the nails to show I died for them.’ ”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages 473, 474, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We are living in the time when God will judge all people. How should this Bible truth change the way we live each day?`

`Why is God’s work as Judge good news and not bad news for us?`