---
title:  'Skin for Skin: The Battle Continues'
date:   10/10/2016
---

Job 2:1–3 begins almost repeating some of Job 1:6–8. The big change is the last part of Job 2:3, where the Lord Himself talks about how faithful Job remained despite the calamities that befell him. Thus, by the time we get to Job 2:3, it looks as if Satan’s accusations have been shown as false. Job stayed faithful to God and didn’t curse Him, as Satan said he would.

```Read Job 2. What happens in these texts? Also, what is the significance of the fact that in both Job 1 and 2 these “sons of God” are there to witness the dialogue between God and Satan?```
    
The phrase “skin for skin” is an idiomatic expression that has baffled commentators. The idea, though, is this: let something happen to Job’s own person, and that will cause him to show where his loyalty really is. Ruin Job’s body, his health, and see what happens.

And interestingly enough, what happens does not happen in a vac- uum, either. Both instances of the controversy in heaven, as revealed here in the book of Job, take place in the context of some sort of meet- ing between these heavenly intelligences and God. Satan is making his accusations “publicly”; that is, he is doing it before these other beings. This idea fits in perfectly with what we know about the great contro- versy. It is something that is unfolding before the whole universe. (See 1 Cor. 4:9, Dan. 7:10, Rev. 12:7–9.)

“But the plan of redemption had a yet broader and deeper purpose than the salvation of man. It was not for this alone that Christ came to the earth; it was not merely that the inhabitants of this little world might regard the law of God as it should be regarded; but it was to vindicate the character of God before the universe. . . . The act of Christ in dying for the salvation of man would not only make heaven accessible to men, but before all the universe it would justify God and His Son in their dealing with the rebellion of Satan. It would establish the perpetuity of the law of God and would reveal the nature and the results of sin.” —Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 68, 69.