---
title:  God Judges Babylon
date:   16/03/2019
---

_When Babylon loses her power, demons start doing miracles (Revelation 16:13, 14) to trick people to fight the war against God’s people._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation chapters 16–18.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “ ‘Come out of that city, my people, so that you will not share in her sins. Then you will not suf­ fer any of the terrible punishment she will get. That city’s sins are piled up as high as heaven. God has not forgot­ ten the wrongs she has done’ ” (Revelation 18:4, 5, ERV).

**BABYLON** is a word picture for false religion. The Bible shows end-time Babylon as a city. The people’s support for this city “dries up” the same as the Euphrates River shown in the 6th Trouble. When Babylon loses her power, demons start doing miracles (Revelation 16:13, 14) to trick people to fight the war against God’s people. At the start of the war, a big earthquake happens. The earthquake is part of the 7th Trouble. The earthquake breaks Babylon into three parts (Revelation 16:18, 19). These three parts are the worldwide powers that joined together against God’s people: the drag- on, the wild sea animal, and the false messenger. But their group breaks. That ends Babylon’s power.

Revelation 17 and 18 tell us how Babylon’s end will hap- pen. First, John shows us Babylon again. But now Babylon is a prostitute. A prostitute sells sex for pay. This prostitute rides on the red wild animal. This red wild animal power works with this evil woman’s “daughters,” a word picture for other false religions and Christian churches that stopped obeying God’s truth. Together, they all try to turn people away from God (Revelation 17:1–11).