---
title:  Babylon, The Woman Who Sells Her Body
date:   17/03/2019
---

_When people accept Babylon’s “wine,” they act the same as drunk people._

`Revelation 17:1 shows us Babylon as a woman, sitting on water.What does the water in Revelation 17:15 show us?`

A woman in the Bible often can be a word picture for God’s people. The book of Revelation shows us God’s true church as a holy woman (Revelation 12:1; Revelation 22:17). But what word picture does John use to show us a church that turns away from God? A prostitute. A female prostitute will have sex with anyone who pays her enough money. That is why Revelation 17:5 shows Babylon as a prostitute. In Old Testament times, the city of Babylon depended on the Euphrates River for life. In the same way, end-time Babylon depends on kings and people to help her do what she wants.

`Read Revelation 17:2; Revelation 14:8; and Revelation 18:2, 3. In these verses, what two groups of people work with end­time Babylon?`

The first group who works with Babylon are the leaders on this earth. The Bible shows that these leaders “cheat” on God by having sex with the prostitute named Babylon. Old Testament writers often used the idea of cheating, or having unlawful sex, as a word picture to show us that the people of Israel turned away from the Lord and turned to other coun- tries and their gods for protection (Isaiah 1:21; Jeremiah 3:1–10). The cheating between the kings on the earth and the prostitute Babylon in Revelation shows us that an unlaw- ful connection will happen between end-time Babylon and the governments on this earth that support her.

The second group who supports the prostitute Babylon is the people on the earth. Babylon makes the people “drunk” with her wine. Babylon’s wine is a word picture for false teachings. When the people accept Babylon’s “wine,” they act the same as drunk people. The people believe that Babylon’s teachings protect them. When people are drunk, they do not think clearly. Also, they are easy to control (read Isaiah 28:7). Everyone on the earth will be tricked. That is, everyone who is not part of God’s loyal people.

`In the end time, almost everyone on earth will be tricked by Babylon. What does that show us about the dangers of going along with what most people say is right?`