---
title:  Babylon Rides The Red Wild Animal
date:   18/03/2019
---

_In his vision, John sees an evil woman who sits on a red wild animal._

`Read about the female prostitute in Revelation 17:3. As we learned, a prostitute sells sex for pay. An angel tells John that this prostitute named Babylon sits on water and that God will judge her. When John sees her, she rides the “red wild animal” (NLV). The water and the red wild animal are symbols for the people who support Babylon. How do these symbols help us see who these people really are?`

In his vision, John goes into the wild land and sees an evil woman who sits on a red wild animal. This prostitute is a word picture for a religious power that turned against God. The red wild animal is a word picture for a government. The picture of “religion” riding on the back of the “government” shows us that the woman and the animal are two different powers. In the past, Revelation showed us that religion and government were always together. Now we see these two powers are separate from each other. But they will join together at the end time. That is why the woman rides the red wild animal: to show that this end-time religious power will control all the governments on earth.

`How does this woman show us the dragon, the wild sea animal, and the wild land animal in Revelation 12 and 13?`

The prostitute Babylon wears very expensive clothes. Her clothes are purple and red. She also wears jewelry made from gold, precious stones, and pearls. In Bible times, female prostitutes often wore expensive jewelry and clothes to make men want to have sex with them (Jeremiah 4:30). Babylon’s clothes also help us remember the clothes worn by Israel’s top holy leader in the Old Testament. This leader is the high priest. His clothes also have the same colors that the prostitute wears: purple, red, and gold (Exodus 28:5, 6). The colors of these clothes tell us that the woman is a word picture for the end-time religious power that Satan uses to turn the people on the earth away from God. She is “drunk” from drinking the blood of God’s people who died for their faith. That connects end-time Babylon to the Roman Catholic Church in the Middle Ages. That church killed millions of Christians because they believed the Good News about Jesus.