---
title:  Who Is The Red Wild Animal?
date:   19/03/2019
---

_The wild sea­animal power made war with the woman in the white dress and beat her (Revelation 13:5–7)._

In Revelation 17:6, 7, John is shocked when he sees the prostitute. Remember, a female prostitute sells her body for sex to anyone who will pay her enough money. Maybe John is shocked because the prostitute makes him think about the wild sea-animal power in Revelation 13. The wild sea-animal power made war with the woman in the white dress and beat her (Revelation 13:5–7). The woman in white is a word picture for God’s true church. The woman runs into the wild land to escape the attacks. She stays there for 1,260 days or years (Revelation 12:13, 14). That time in history (a.d. 538–1798) is known as the Middle Ages.

`Compare the wording of Revelation 17:8 with the wording of Revelation 13:8 and Revelation 13:3. What words are the same? How does Revelation 13:3 help us understand the three parts of the red wild animal’s work at different times in history?`

John shows us the red wild animal that “was alive but is now dead. He will come up” (Revelation 17:8, NLV) from the hole that has no bottom. Then he will be destroyed. Do you see that John’s words about the red wild animal shows us that this power wants to copy God’s name? God’s name Yahweh means “who is, and who was, and who will come” (Revelation 1:4, NIrV; read also Revelation 4:8). John’s description about the red wild animal also helps us to understand the three parts of its work in history:

1. The words “was alive” show us what happened during the time period of 1,260 years when the wild sea animal attacked God’s people (Revelation 13:5).

2. The words “is now dead” help us remember the wild sea animal’s deep cut. The wild sea animal, or the Roman Catholic Church, got “cut,” in 1798. The cut shows that the church seems not to have any real power on earth anymore.

3. The words “he will come up” show us that the Roman Catholic Church’s cut will heal. Then the Church will “come back to life” and grow powerful again. It will be full of Satan’s anger. Revelation 17 shows us the Roman Catholic Church of Revelation 13:1–8 at the time when its deep cut is healed. Then the prostitute Babylon will sit on the red wild animal’s back. When she sits on its back, that is a sign that religion and government will join together again, as they did in the Middle Ages, and attack God’s people.