---
title:  The Red Wild Animal’S Seven Heads
date:   20/03/2019
---

_The angel explains to John that the seven heads are seven mountains. The seven mountains show us seven worldwide kingdoms that ruled on the earth, one after another: Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Media­Persia, Greece, Rome, and then the Roman Catholic Church during the Middle Ages._

`Read John’s words about the red wild animal’s seven heads in Revelation 17:9–11. Also read Revelation 13:18. We need minds filled with wisdom to understand the seven heads. What wisdom is John talking about? How do we get this wisdom (read James 1:5)?`

The angel explains to John that the seven heads are seven mountains. Some Bible experts think that these seven heads are symbols for the seven hills that the city of Rome was built on. That is why these experts translate the Greek word for “mountains” as “hills.” The seven mountains also are seven kings. The Bible teaches us that “kings” mean “kingdoms” (Daniel 2:37–39; Daniel 7:17). That makes sense when we remember that the book of Revelation does not show us per- sons but government powers that rule on the earth.

In the Bible, “mountains” often show worldwide powers or kingdoms (Jeremiah 51:25; Ezekiel 35:2, 3). Also, do you see that these mountains do not all appear at the same time? Many Bible experts believe that the seven mountains show us seven worldwide kingdoms that ruled on the earth, one after another: Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Media-Persia, Greece, Rome, and then the Roman Catholic Church during the Middle Ages. Satan used these kingdoms, at times, to fight against God and hurt His people. By the time that John wrote the book of Revelation, five of these kingdoms lost their power: Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Persia, and Greece. Rome, the 6th kingdom, was in power during John’s time.

The 7th kingdom had not started ruling on the earth when John had his vision. The 7th kingdom is the wild sea-animal power in Revelation 13: the Roman Catholic Church. It con- trolled most of Europe in the Middle Ages and had power over God’s people and hurt them. This church came to power after the end of the Roman Kingdom. History shows us in a powerful way that this special message, or prophecy, from God came true. Jesus gave John this prophecy many hundreds of years before the prophecy happened.

You will remember the 7th head got a deep cut that almost killed it. The 8th head is the same power as the 7th head after its deep cut heals. Today, we live at the time when the deep cut is healing. During that time, the woman named Babylon will ride on the red wild animal’s back. The 8th head, or kingdom, will have worldwide power again before the end of time. Then it will be destroyed.