---
title:  The End Of Babylon
date:   21/03/2019
---

_The dragon and his team cause the ten kings on the earth to make war with the Lamb, who is Jesus._

`Read Revelation 17:12–15, along with Revelation 16:12–16. What do these verses teach us about the ten kings?`

There are many different ideas about who the ten kings are. But we get a hint about who they are from the red wild-animal power who joins with kings. Do you see that the red wild-animal power behaves the same as the wild sea- animal power from Revelation 13? That helps us see that the two animals are the same power. It also helps us under- stand that the kings who join with the red wild-animal power are the same powers that we saw in Revelation 13. The ten kings show up right before the end of time. The number ten is a word picture that shows us that the governments on the earth will support Babylon fully at the end time.

Revelation 17:13, 14 show us the war of Armageddon again. We first learned about this big war in Revelation 16:12–16. The (1) dragon, (2) the wild sea-animal power, and (3) the wild land-animal power will cause the ten kings on the earth to make war with the Lamb, who is Jesus. That tells us that this big war is not a real fight in the Middle East. No. It is a fight between Satan and his followers against Jesus and His army of angels.

`The ten kings stop supporting Babylon (Revelation 17:16–18). What makes that happen (Revelation 16:2– 12)? Who causes Babylon’s end?`

The Last Troubles cause the ten kings to stop supporting Babylon. The ten horns, or kings, fill with hate for Babylon. John says they tear off her clothes. Then they eat her flesh and burn her with fire. These word pictures use Old Testament words to explain God’s work as Judge against the city of Jerusalem (Jeremiah 4:30). In the Old Testament, if the daughter of the most holy leader in Israel is found guilty of selling sex to men for pay, she will be burned in a fire as punishment (Leviticus 21:9). Revelation 16:10–12 show us that the worldwide powers who support Babylon learn that Babylon tricked them. These kings believed that Babylon was able to protect them from God’s anger. When they learn that she cannot protect them from the Seven Last Troubles, the kings attack her. In the end, God judges Babylon and her supporters. They experience God’s full anger against them for their evil behavior.