---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/03/2019
---

_Before God destroys Babylon, a voice from heaven warns God’s peo­ ple in Babylon to leave this evil city right away (Revelation 18:4)._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Before God destroys Babylon, a voice from heaven warns God’s people who continue to stay in Babylon. The voice tells them to leave Babylon right away (Revelation 18:4). This verse shows us that God has many loyal people who continue to be part of Babylon for different reasons. God uses His end-time church to beg these people to separate from this evil religious power and not to share in her guilt or to join her in her sins. God’s people in Babylon must come out of Babylon so that they will escape God’s anger against her. God does not want anyone in Babylon to die (2 Peter 3:9). Revelation 19:1–10 show us that there are many people in Babylon who love and obey God. These loyal followers will obey God’s warning to separate from Babylon. There is a lot more work for God’s end-time church to do. They must warn God’s people who stay in Babylon to leave. What does that tell us about our need of God’s power in our lives?

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Revelation 18:4 shows us that God has many loyal people in Babylon. Think about these words from Ellen G. White: “We must share God’s warning with His people who stay in Babylon. But we must be careful not to push or judge anyone who does not have an understanding of the truth that we have. We should not go out of our way to say things that will make Catholics feel attacked. There are many Catholics who are very loyal Christians. They walk in all the light that God shines on them. God will work to help them. God gives the people in His end-time church many chances to improve their lives, their minds, and their bodies. But they fail to do what God asked. In God’s eyes, these people are in more danger of being punished than those Catholics who believe the wrong teachings about the Bible. Yes, they believe the wrong thing, but they live to do good to other people.”—Ellen G.  White, Evangelism [the work of preaching the Good News about Jesus everywhere], page 575, adapted.`

`2. Revelation 17 shows us an evil woman sitting on a red wild animal. We know that the woman in chapter 12 shows us God’s loyal church. But the woman in chapter 17 shows us an evil church that tries to turn the people on the earth away from God. What is the same about the two women? What is different? More important, what do you learn when you look at the two women?`