---
title:  The Holy Tent
date:   20/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 35:1–3; Exodus 35:4–36:7; Exodus 36:8–39:31; Exodus 40:1–38; John 1:14.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then the cloud covered the Meeting Tent and the Glory of the Lordord filled the Holy Tent. . . . So the cloud of the Lordord was over [above] the Holy Tent during the day, and at night there was a fire in the cloud. So all the Israelites could see the cloud while they traveled” (Exodus 40:34, 38, ERV).

The most important job that God’s people had in Bible times was to live in close relationship with the Lord, to obey Him, and to show other people His love (Deuteronomy 4:5–8).

In the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve hid from God because their sin made them afraid. As sinners, we are afraid of God. Our sin keeps us from understanding His love. The good news is that God makes the first move to repair the broken relationship between Himself and us.

Our most important job is to show other people a correct “picture” of God and His love. When people come to God and believe that He loves them, they will give their lives to Him. Then they will obey what He tells them to do because they know His commandments are for their own good.

The Holy Tent showed the close relationship God wanted with people. God used the Holy Tent to help His people understand important Bible truth. The Holy Tent shows us how God saves sinners who come to Him in faith.