---
title:  The Sabbath Of The Lord
date:   21/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some Bible thinkers say that the seventh-day Sabbath was only for the Jews. Or they say that the Jews first heard about the Sabbath at Sinai. But both of these ideas are false. God made the Sabbath holy in Eden (read Genesis 2:1–3). Also, the Jews kept the Sabbath long before Sinai (read Exodus 16:22–29). So, there’s no question that the Sabbath was very much a part of life for the Hebrew people from the start.

`What Bible truth did the people learn when they built the Holy Tent? Read Exodus 35:1–3 for the answer.`

The Sabbath and its message was, is, and always will be about God: who He is and what His mighty works are. The Sabbath helps us remember that God made the skies and the earth. The Sabbath also helps us remember that God saves us. The Sabbath helps us think about God, who wants to live with His people. In this way, both the Sabbath and the Holy Tent help us to remember the same thing: God’s love in our hearts and lives.

The Sabbath in the Old Testament teaches us five important Bible truths:

**First, God made the skies and the earth.** The Bible starts with this amazing announcement (Genesis 1:1). The Sabbath helps us remember God’s work (Genesis 2:2, 3; Exodus 20:8–11). All other Bible truths come from this truth.

**Second, the Savior will come.** The Savior will win the fight against the snake (Satan) and evil.

**Third, God will set up His Kingdom.** The Sabbath helps us understand God’s kingdom better.

**Fourth, the Lord saves us.** God’s people announce that God is their Lord and Savior. His people understand that God in His mercy saves them because of their faith.

**Fifth, God will judge everyone.** People who fight against God and reject Him will have no future. The Lord gives everlasting life to the people who follow Him.

`The Jews have a saying about the Sabbath: “Israel kept the Sabbath, but the Sabbath also kept Israel.” Why is the Sabbath important to us?`