---
title:  God’s Special End-time People
date:   22/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 35:4–36:7. What important lessons are in these verses for us today?`

Many precious materials were needed to build the Holy Tent. God’s people gave the materials. Their hearts were filled with joy as they gave. The people gave gold, silver, brass, fine linen, precious stones, special cloths, wood, olive oil, perfumes, and many other needed things. People also donated their time and skills because many objects for the Holy Tent and its furniture needed to be made. Also, tailors wove clothes for the priests or spiritual leaders, who would work in the Holy Tent. Clothes also must be made for the high priest or top spiritual leader. His clothes included a chest covering and a special hat.

God blessed the Israelites with many gifts from the Egyptians when they left Egypt. Now God gave the Israelites the chance to give thank offerings for God’s mercy and His mighty leadership. The hearts of the people were moved to do the work to God’s glory.

The people gave so much stuff that the Lord told Moses, “ ‘The people have brought too much. We have more than we need to finish the work the Lordord told us to do’ ” (Exodus 36:5, ERV). So, Moses had to tell the people to stop donating (read Exodus 36:6, 7).

God’s Spirit helped the people build the Holy Tent correctly. Bezalel, Aholiab, and other people were “filled . . . with the Spirit of God” (Exodus 35:31, NKJV). God gave them the wisdom, skills, and knowledge to do the work exactly the way God showed Moses.

From these verses, we see that the gift of the Holy Spirit is not just about spiritual gifts of love, joy, and peace. The gift of the Holy Spirit also includes skills and know-how. God gives His people this wisdom to get His work done. When we are filled with the Spirit, we are not filled with some special spiritual energy or magical power. To help His cause grow, God gives His followers skills to do His work and do it well.

`What spiritual gifts did you get when you were filled with the Holy Spirit? Remember, the spiritual gifts can only live in us when we have the fruit of the Spirit (read Galatians 5:22, 23).`