---
title:  Building The Holy Tent
date:   23/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read over Exodus 36:8–39:31. Why do you think God gave Moses such a clear plan to follow? What does this plan teach us about how God cares about every part of His work?`

Moses carefully built the Holy Tent. He did everything God told him to do when he was on the mountain. The Bible tells us about the different parts of the building plan. There was (1) the Holy Tent with its different cloths, curtains, and parts (Exodus 36:8–38); (2) the ark (Exodus 37:1–9); (3) the special table for the holy bread (Exodus 37:10–16); (4) the lampstand (Exodus 37:17–24); (5) the altar of perfume (Exodus 37:25–29); (6) the altar of burnt offering (Exodus 38:1–7); (7) the bowl or pot for washing (Exodus 38:8); (8) the walled-in space (Exodus 38:9–20); and (9) the material used for the Holy Tent (Exodus 38:21–31). Exodus 39 continues with a discussion about the special clothes that the spiritual leaders wore.

The Holy Tent was an object lesson that showed God’s whole plan to save sinners. The Holy Tent showed (1) how much God hates sin and what He will do to solve the sin problem, (2) that God saves sinners who confess their sins, (3) what will happen to evil people, and (4) that God will make a future for His people without evil or sin.

Each day the priests or spiritual leaders did work in the Holy Tent. This work showed how God will save sinners. God showed that He forgave sinners who were sorry for their sins and offered to save them. To get this gift of forgiveness, a sinner must offer a gift. The gift was an animal that must be killed. These animal offerings showed the future death of Jesus. The Savior’s blood “makes our lives clean from all sin” (1 John 1:7, NLV). To get this gift, we must confess our sin and accept Jesus’ holy life as our own (Psalm 32:1, 2). In this way, God showed sinners He forgave them, and they could rejoice that He saved them.

The priests also did special work each year on the Day of Atonement or the Day When God Removes All Sin. This work shows how God will solve the sin problem forever (Leviticus 16; John 1:29). Right now, Jesus works for us in heaven’s temple (Hebrews 7:25). He will solve the sin problem (Daniel 7:13, 14, 22, 27; Daniel 8:14; Revelation 21:4). People worshiped, praised, and thanked God at the Holy Tent. Worship is about growing our relationship with God, who invites us to fellowship with Him.