---
title:  God In The Holy Tent
date:   24/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What visible sign did God give Israel to show them that He was living with them? Read Exodus 40:1–38 for the answer.`

The final chapter of the book of Exodus (Exodus 40) talks about the Holy Tent and the Ten Commandments.

God fills the temple with His glory. God’s glory is His love and holy life (Exodus 3:5; Exodus 33:18, 19). The glory is visible as the cloud. The book of Exodus ends with a discussion about how God leads His people in the cloud day and night. In a very powerful way, the Hebrews saw that God was real. More than that, they saw a visible sign that He led them in the cloud.

Moses set up the Holy Tent on the first day of the first month in the second year (Exodus 40:2, 17). Moses offered to God everything connected with the Holy Tent. That included Aaron and his sons, who were God’s priests or spiritual leaders. Moses put special oil on them to show that they belonged to God (Exodus 40:9, 13–15). Moses went into the Most Holy Room, the Holy Room, and the walled space around the Holy Tent. Moses gave all these things to God and got the Holy Tent ready to be used for worship (also read Numbers 7:1). That was the only time Moses entered the Most Holy Room. After that, only the high priest entered it on the Day of Atonement or the Day When God Removed All Sin (Leviticus 16:2, 17).

Three times, the Bible says that God or His servant finished doing work: (1) after He made the skies and earth (Genesis 2:1–3), (2) after Moses finished building the Holy Tent (Exodus 40:33), and (3) after Solomon finished the temple (1 Kings 7:51). So, we see a connection between the time when God finished making the skies and earth and Israel’s Holy Tent. This connection helps us think about the time when the Lord will live with the saved on the new earth in the New Jerusalem. The New Jerusalem is “the Tabernacle [temple] of God” (Revelation 21:2, 3, KJV; compare with Revelation 22:1–4).

God fills the Holy Tent with His glory (Exodus 40:34). So, the story ends in glory that started with Moses being born. The story continued with God’s win over the Egyptian gods, the ten punishments, the escape from Egypt, the defeat of the Egyptian army, and God speaking His law on Sinai.

`What are ways that you can know God is with you? Why is it important that you know when He is with you?`