---
title:  Jesus Lived Among Us As One Of Us
date:   25/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Jesus became a man and lived among us. How is His becoming a man compared to the Old Testament tabernacle or Holy Tent in the desert? Read John 1:14 for the answer.`

Jesus became a man. We don’t really understand how that happened. We will study this mystery when we get to heaven. John says that Jesus became a man to show that He lives with us in a real and visible way. Jesus on this earth in a body helps us remember that God in the Old Testament lived with the Israelites in the Holy Tent at Sinai. Later, God lived in the desert as the Israelites journeyed to the Promised Land.

After Jesus became human, He lived with people on this earth. This thought is amazing! The everlasting God came down to us, as one of us. God wants us to know that He truly is “Immanuel” (Isaiah 7:14). “The name Immanuel means ‘God with us’ ” (Matthew 1:23, NIrV).

In Matthew 18:20, Jesus said that if two or three come together in His name, He will be there among them. Jesus is with His people in the Person of the Holy Spirit. Jesus invites His followers to be in close relationship with Him: “ ‘Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with him. And he will eat with me’ ” (Revelation 3:20, ICB).

`Read Revelation 21:1–3. What Bible truth do these verses teach us?`

The New Jerusalem will come down from heaven to earth. John announces, “I heard a loud voice coming from heaven. It [the voice] said, ‘See! God’s home is with men. He will live with them. They will be His people. God Himself will be with them. He will be their God’ ” (Revelation 21:3, NLV). There will be no temple in the New Jerusalem (Revelation 21:22) because the whole city is the temple. The city is the same size in all its measurements: the sides of the city are as tall as they are wide and long. (The Most Holy Room in the Holy Tent also was the same size in all its measurements. So, this room was in the shape of a perfect square or cube, with all sides equal or the same.) We will live in this perfect city with God on an earth without sin, death, or suffering forever and ever.