---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   26/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Tabernacle and Its Services,” pages 353–358, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Before the Holy Tent was built, God helped Israel escape from slavery in Egypt. Then God made a Promise with His people. This agreement was a relationship that was meant to continue forever. The Lord would be Israel’s God. They would be His people (Exodus 6:7). The law showed the people what God expected them to do and how to love each other. The Holy Tent was a meeting place. It was a place where God and humans came together. After God saved Israel and promised to be their God forever, the people could meet with God in the place where He chose to live among them.”—Andrews Bible Commentary: Old Testament, “Exodus” (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University press, 2020), page 226, adapted.

Ellen G. White says, “In the work done in the Holy Tent, and later in the temple, the people learned each day the important Bible truths about Jesus’ death and saving work. On the Day of Atonement or the Day When God Removes All Sin, the priests or spiritual leaders did a special work. This work helped the people think about the final work that would happen in the worldwide war between God and Satan. At that time, God will make all heaven and earth clean from sin and sinners.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 358, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Blood was an important part of the work done in the Holy Tent. What did the blood symbolize? What important Bible truths did all these offerings show God’s people?`

`God came to live with us and die for us. What does this amazing gift teach us about God’s love? Also, what does this gift teach us about how much God wants to see us saved in His everlasting kingdom?`

`Read Hebrews 8:1–6. What do these verses teach us about how the Holy Tent on earth showed us what Jesus is doing for us right now in heaven’s temple?`