---
title: 'A Fair Trial'
date: 30/11/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 20

**A Fair Trial**

A shelter provides a place for people to take refuge when their lives are in danger. Those who live in conflict zones know the importance of finding shelter quickly when bombing sirens go off. Bomb shelters are typically built underground with heavily reinforced walls that don’t easily cave in. During wartime, when mere seconds can make the difference between life and death, it’s essential to know where the shelters are and the fastest route to reach them. In some communities where bombing is common, classrooms are set up inside shelters so that teachers can instruct with less danger. Shelters save lives in times of catastrophic events. Some communities build designated storm shelters for people to flee to when there’s violent weather, such as tornadoes or hurricanes. A strong shelter is a place where people can rest and feel secure.

In accordance with the directions God gave Moses (Num. 35:6), Joshua designated six cities of refuge where anyone accused of murder could find protection from pursuers who might seek revenge. The cities of refuge were places where the cause of death could be investigated and justice could be pursued. This arrangement provided a judiciary process that helped protect against family members abusing their right to take private vengeance against the killer. When the guilty party entered the city of refuge, they were safe from vengeance until they received a fair hearing before a judiciary panel. While premeditated murder was to be punished with death, a more merciful sentence was to be given to those responsible for accidental death.

The cities of refuge symbolized the infinite value God places on human life. In cases of intentional murder, the grievous crime of taking human life had to be recognized. Wrongful deaths were punished with death. Because God made people in His own image, He takes murder very seriously. As God had told Noah many centuries earlier, “Whoever sheds man’s blood, by man his blood shall be shed; for in the image of God He made man” (Gen. 9:6). However, lest innocent people be wrongfully punished, the cities of refuge provided a process in which the accused could receive a careful and fair hearing. These cities were established to save the life of anyone who took another person’s life by accident.

The cities of refuge were spread out across the territory of Israel so that anybody could reach one within a day’s journey. Three of these cities were located on the west side of the Jordan and three on the east side. The roads leading to these cities were well maintained to ensure unhindered access. Large signs were set up along the roadside, making the way to safety highly visible. The cities were open to anyone—Israelite citizens, immigrants, or travelers passing through the country. When someone was suspected of murder, they had to hasten without delay to the nearest city of refuge. There was no time to eat or rest until they had found safety within the city’s walls.

If the defendant was found innocent of intentional murder, their life was spared. However, protection could be guaranteed only within the city walls. Those who left the city did so at the risk of their lives. Away from the city, they were on their own. Until the death of the high priest, the avenger of blood—the dead one’s relative—was free to kill the defendant if found outside the city of refuge. After the death of the high priest, the exonerated person was finally free to return home (Num. 35:25–28).

The cities of refuge were more than just places to escape vengeance. Each city was a microcosm of the plan of salvation, offering a glimpse of God’s love and paralleling how He extends His grace to sinners through Jesus.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 20:2–6 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 20._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `