---
title: 'Safeguarding Justice'
date: 01/12/2025
---

### inGest

Simply arriving at the city of refuge did not guarantee protection from punishment. The person responsible for someone’s death still had to present a defense to the judges at the city gate. The judges examined the facts about the case to discover not only what had happened but also the motives behind the action. What happened? How did it happen? Why did it happen? If somebody died because a stone hit them, the reason the defendant threw the stone needed to be investigated (Num. 35:23, 24). Was it an accident, or was it intentional? Were the parties known to be enemies? Every defendant was to be granted a fair trial where both sides could present evidence.

Nobody could be convicted of murder on the testimony of a single witness; there had to be multiple witnesses (35:30). A group of jurors determined the outcome of the trial after the defendant had stood “before the congregation for judgment” (Josh. 20:6). If the jurors determined that the defendant had not committed premeditated murder, they granted him or her clemency. The law then allowed the acquitted defendant to remain within the walls of the city of refuge, out of the avenger of blood’s deadly grasp. The Bible describes it in these words: “Then if the avenger of blood pursues him, they shall not deliver the slayer into his hand, because he struck his neighbor unintentionally, but did not hate him beforehand” (v. 5). Justice demands more than a surface look at events. It requires a deeper examination of a person’s intentions and motives.

Justice is a cornerstone of civilization. No nation can prosper for long without a proper judicial system. The books of Moses include many laws that were given to safeguard judicial integrity in Israel. Moses warned the leaders of Israel that nothing would corrupt justice faster than accepting bribes (Deut. 16:19; 27:25). They were particularly instructed to show no partiality toward the rich or the poor (1:17; 10:17). Decision makers were not to believe every report they heard, and false accusers were to receive the same punishment they had intended for the person they lied about (19:15–21). As Israel became established in the land of Canaan, provisions had to be made for a reliable judicial system that would uphold both justice and mercy.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`Why is justice important?`