---
title: 'Saved from Condemnation'
date: 02/12/2025
---

### inTerpret

The purpose of the city of refuge was not to help perfect people. On the contrary, the city was to help people who had done wrong. Even those who killed someone accidentally had to accept the blame and responsibility. The city of refuge was the place where culpable people could be saved from condemnation. After their trial, a person found guilty of accidentally killing somebody could be saved from the avenger of blood by staying in the city of refuge. After the death of the high priest, the person could then return home fully exonerated.

The Bible contains numerous examples that point to God as a place of refuge from the condemnation of sin. David knew how to flee to the City of Refuge in the face of sin and guilt. He was, after all, a murderer and an adulterer, yet he ran to God seeking forgiveness. “Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me away from Your presence, and do not take Your Holy Spirit from me” (Ps. 51:10, 11). Though he had committed terrible sins, David fled to God in repentance, seeking refuge from the storm of guilt, shame, and condemnation his actions had stirred within him. God showed His mercy to David by forgiving him. David admitted his guilt when he said, “I have sinned against the LORD” to the prophet Nathan, who responded by saying, “The Lord also has put away your sin; you shall not die” (2 Sam. 12:13). David’s repentance led to forgiveness.

Repentance is an integral part of experiencing the refuge of salvation Jesus offers us. Through the convicting power of the Holy Spirit, God leads us to see the true nature of our sins, and with that recognition, He prompts us to not only be sorry for what we’ve done but turn away from the sin as well. True repentance includes genuine sorrow for the pain our actions have caused God, others, and ourselves. Without repentance, we can’t experience the saving power of Jesus.

If we come to Jesus, He is willing to hear our concerns, accept our case, forgive us, and set us free. Only Jesus can save us from condemnation. He will never force anybody to come to Him, but he does invite us. He longs for us to come to Him to find salvation.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What obstacles (if any) are keeping you from running to God’s refuge? How can you overcome those obstacles?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 20. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._