---
title: 'Jesus, Our City of Refuge'
date: 04/12/2025
---

### inVite

Cities of refuge provide an object lesson of salvation. Like a city of refuge, Jesus invites all to come to Him and find rest (Matt. 11:28, 29). The city of refuge did not show partiality. Israelites and foreigners alike were welcome to take shelter there (Josh. 20:9). In the same way, Jesus welcomes all who come to Him. He promises, “The one who comes to Me I will by no means cast out” (John 6:37). The cities of refuge were strategically located in places that everybody could easily access. Likewise, Jesus is never far away. We have free access to Him whenever we recognize our need.

The city of refuge offered safety from the avenger of blood. We sometimes make bad choices and struggle beneath the weight of shame and remorse. At other times, Satan pursues us relentlessly with thoughts of worthlessness, despair, and fear. Whether facing the results of choices we’ve made or experiencing Satan’s attacks, our only safety is to hide in Jesus. Living in a world broken by sin and bearing sinful natures, none of us are strangers to spiritual warfare. However, Scripture tells us, “When the enemy comes in like a flood, the Spirit of the LORD will lift up a standard against him” (Isa. 59:19). In our own strength, we are helpless against the attacks of the enemy, but in Christ, we are shielded and protected.

The city of refuge could not help people who merely approached the city and then turned away. Casually passing through the city did no good. The city could only protect those who stayed within its walls. In the same way, a one-time encounter with Jesus accomplishes no lasting good. Jesus invites us to abide in Him forever: “I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing” (John 15:5). Jesus is a refuge to those who abide in Him continually.

Abiding in Jesus involves trusting Him and finding rest in Him despite dangers and threats all around. Regarding this special experience, David wrote, “He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, ‘He is my refuge and my fortress; My God, in Him I will trust’ ” (Ps. 91:1, 2). While the city of refuge offered safety from the avenger of blood, Jesus offers safety from the enemy of our souls. Abiding in Christ is where we find peace and freedom in this world. Today, Jesus invites us to come to Him as our City of Refuge.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`What helps you to stay abiding in Jesus and not wander away?`