---
title: inQuire
date: 06/12/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Finding refuge:**

1. What’s the purpose of a refuge or shelter? Describe a time when you were protected by a shelter.
2. How did the cities of refuge protect people and save lives? Read Joshua 20:1–6. _See Num. 35:9–15 for comparison._
3. Why was it important for the cities of refuge to be freely available to everyone? What does this teach about Jesus? _Compare Josh. 20:9 and Num. 35:15 with John 6:37._

**Finding justice:**

1. Why was it important for the court to investigate the motive of the accused person? _Read Num. 35:22–24._
2. What other laws were given to safeguard a fair judicial process? _See Exod. 23:1–9 and Deut. 19:15–21._

`Personal reflection: When has justice been important to you? When has mercy been important to you? What do you desire from God?`

**Abiding in Jesus:**

1. A city of refuge couldn’t protect anyone who left its walls. How can we learn to abide in Jesus continually? _See John 15:5._
2. How do we find peace and safety in Jesus? _See Matt. 11:28–30._
3. In what ways does Satan try to draw us away from Jesus?

`Personal reflection: What does it look like to abide in Christ? How do you do that?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- Like a city of refuge, Jesus accepts everybody who comes to Him for help.
- God instituted a very fair judicial process that would safeguard people’s rights.
- We are safe only when we abide continually in Jesus.