---
title:  Head of the Body (the Church)
date:  17/02/2026
---

`Read Ephesians 1:22 and Colossians 2:10. What does “head” mean in these passages? What does Paul mean when he calls Jesus the “head of the church” (Eph. 5:23)?`

It is natural to speak of the head in a metaphorical sense in reference to a leadership position, as reflected in countless languages across the globe. We find similar use throughout the Old and New Testaments. Notice how “head” is used in the following verses:

1.	Exodus 18:25—Moses chose “able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.”

2.	Numbers 31:26—“the heads of the fathers’ houses” (ESV).

3.	Deuteronomy 28:13—God will make Israel “the head, and not the tail” if they will obey Him.

4.	Isaiah 7:8—“For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin.”

5.	Hosea 1:11—“The children of Judah and the children of Israel shall . . . appoint for themselves one head” (NKJV).

6.	Micah 3:9—“You heads of the house of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel” (NKJV).

7.	1 Corinthians 11:3—“The head of every man is Christ.”

Thus, Christ as the head of the church provides leadership, guidance, and nourishment for the church’s unity and growth (see Col. 2:19).

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12–27. Here also Paul describes the church as a “body.” What other aspects of the church are conveyed by this metaphor?`

Just as the body cannot live without the head, when a part of the body is lost or injured, life can be much more difficult. We often don’t recognize how important something is until we lose it.

`If you had to give up a limb or an eye, what would you choose? What does this tell you about how vital each person is as a member of the church?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Since His ascension Christ has carried forward His work on the earth by chosen ambassadors, through whom He speaks to the children of men and ministers to their needs. The great Head of the church superintends His work through the instrumentality of men ordained by God to act as His representatives.\
The position of those who have been called of God to labor in word and doctrine for the upbuilding of His church is one of grave responsibility. In Christ’s stead they are to beseech men and women to be reconciled to God, and they can fulfill their mission only as they receive wisdom and power from above.\
Christ’s ministers are the spiritual guardians of the people entrusted to their care. Their work has been likened to that of watchmen. In ancient times sentinels were often stationed on the walls of cities, where, from points of vantage, they could overlook important posts to be guarded, and give warning of the approach of an enemy. Upon their faithfulness depended the safety of all within. At stated intervals they were required to call to one another, to make sure that all were awake and that no harm had befallen any. The cry of good cheer or of warning was borne from one to another, each repeating the call till it echoed round the city. . . .\
It is the privilege of the watchmen on the walls of Zion to live so near to God, and to be so susceptible to the impressions of His Spirit, that He can work through them to tell men and women of their peril and point them to the place of safety. Faithfully are they to warn them of the sure result of transgression, and faithfully are they to safeguard the interests of the church. At no time may they relax their vigilance. . . . In trumpet tones their voices are to be lifted, and never are they to sound one wavering, uncertain note. . . .\
He who serves under the bloodstained banner of Immanuel will have that to do which will call for heroic effort and patient endurance. But the soldier of the cross stands unshrinkingly in the forefront of the battle. . . . He realizes his need of strength from above. The victories that he gains . . . cause him to lean more and more heavily on the Mighty One. Relying upon that Power, he is enabled to present the message of salvation so forcibly that it vibrates in other minds. . . .\
It is by seeing Him who is invisible that strength and vigor of soul are gained and the power of earth over mind and character is broken.—Lift Him Up, p. 288.