---
title:  To Reconcile All Things
date:  19/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:19, 20. What is this reconciliation that comes through the Cross, and how comprehensive is it?`

Paul uses a very interesting expression in Greek to culminate his description of Jesus, obliquely pointing back to the Father, who was mentioned in Colossians 1:12. It is His fullness that the Father was pleased to have dwell in Jesus (compare Col. 2:9). What is this “fullness”? John refers to it as being the Father’s glory, “full of grace and truth” (John 1:14).

But, based on this passage, that “fullness” encompasses a lot. It embraces God’s eternity and self-existence and His power to create and re-create. Most important, it underscores His wisdom in conquering sin and death through the most unimaginable means—the Cross. And thus, He transformed that most inglorious object into a testimony of His eternal love for every created being. “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life” (John 3:16).

The only way sin could really be defeated forever, and all things be reconciled that could be reconciled, is summed up in that one glorious truth: God loved—He loved the universe, and He loved us so much that He risked everything to save us through Christ’s death on the cross. The Greek word for “world” is _kosmos_, which can encompass the whole universe. Paul refers to this universal demonstration in the context of following Christ: “We have been made a spectacle to the world [_kosmos_, universe], both to angels and to men” (1 Cor. 4:9, NKJV).

“Heaven viewed with grief and amazement Christ hanging upon the cross. . . . By a life of rebellion, Satan and all who unite with him place themselves so out of harmony with God that His very presence is to them a consuming fire. The glory of Him who is love will destroy them. At the beginning of the great controversy, the angels did not understand this. . . .

“But not so when the great controversy shall be ended. Then, the plan of redemption having been completed, the character of God is revealed to all created intelligences. . . .

“Well, then, might the angels rejoice as they looked upon the Saviour’s cross. . . . Christ Himself fully comprehended the results of the sacrifice made upon Calvary. To all these He looked forward when upon the cross He cried out, ‘It is finished.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 760, 764.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Though a veil hangs over the future, you have a knowledge of the Lord’s mercies in the past. Allow no difficulties to discourage you. You have passed through trials, and you will be called to pass through trials again. You have had to pass through experiences not altogether agreeable, and these experiences may be repeated. Temptations have come to you, and temptations will come to you again.\
We know not what is before us; but we know that we have the privilege of committing our souls to God, as unto a faithful Creator. Let us thank God that we have a refuge in trial. Let us remember that Christ is a present help in every time of need. The promises of God’s Word are rich and full and free. God is with us; He cares for us.\
God is revealed to us in Christ. Our Saviour is the image of the invisible God. Oh, how near to heaven we may be. “He that hath seen me hath seen the Father,” Christ declared.\
Let us allow no worldly business to absorb our energies. Let us allow nothing to occupy the place that God should fill. We must have periods of rest, times set apart for meditation and prayer and for spiritual refreshing. Christ went about doing good, healing all manner of sickness and forgiving all sins, comforting the mourners, banishing sorrow by His presence. Let us behold Him—the very compassion and lovingkindness of God Himself.\
Let us seek the Lord. . . . Never forget that you are God’s little children. Refuse to worry about what you cannot help. If you make mistakes, go to the compassionate Saviour and ask Him for forgiveness. Tell Him that you want to follow His will. Be polite to God. Remember that He cares for you, and that He will be a present help in every time of need. His “tender mercies are over all his works.”\
It is our privilege to open our hearts and let the Saviour in. Let us praise Him for the brightness of His presence. Let us carry the sunshine of His love on our countenances and bring it into our words. Then His joy will be in us, and our joy will be full. . . .\
The breath of the higher life is to be breathed into our lifework. This will bind us to one another, and to God. The love of Christ needs to come into our experience. Then we shall love one another as Christ has loved us.—The Upward Look, p. 142.