---
title:  Further Thought
date:  03/03/2023
---

In the conquest of Jericho, Achan was not the only man carrying silver and gold back to the camp of Israel. Joshua had told the men to bring back the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron to the treasury of the house of God (Josh. 6:19, 24). Everything else was to be burned. Achan, however, was the only man to keep something for himself. “Of the millions of Israel there was but one man who, in that solemn hour of triumph and of judgment, had dared to transgress the command of God. Achan’s covetousness was excited by the sight of that costly robe of Shinar; even when it had brought him face to face with death he called it ‘a _goodly_ Babylonish garment.’ One sin had led to another, and he appropriated the gold and silver devoted to the treasury of the Lord—he robbed God of the first fruits of the land of Canaan.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 496.

In Paul’s list of signs of the last days, the first two items involve our attitude toward money and possessions. “But know this, that in the last days perilous times will come: For men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money [covetous]” (2 Tim. 3:1, 2, NKJV). Selfishness and love of money are significant descriptions of humanity in the last days—our day.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read 1 Timothy 6:6–10: “Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows” (NKJV). In class, talk about examples of those who, because of the love of money, have “pierced themselves [and others] through with many sorrows.” There are lots of examples, aren’t there? How can we find the right balance, knowing that we need money to get by but not falling into the trap Paul warns about here?`

`What are other things, besides money, that we can covet?`

`What is the difference between a legitimate desire for something and covetousness? When might a legitimate desire for something turn into covetousness?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our High Calling, “Let Jesus Lead,” p. 38;<br/>
Reflecting Christ, “Christ a Perfect Example for All,” p. 37.<br/>