---
title:  Matthew 24 and 25
date:   12/05/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matt. 24:1-25, Rev. 13:11-17, Matt. 7:24-27 , Luke 21:20, Matt. 25:1-30.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “For false messiahs and false prophets will appear and perform great signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect” (Matthew 24:24, NIV) .

In Matthew 24 and 25, Jesus reveals important truths about end times and about how to be prepared. In a sense, these chapters were Christ’s teaching on last-day events. At the same time, looking to the more immediate future, He sees the impending destruction of Jerusalem, a tragedy of catastrophic proportions for His people.

But in Christ’s words to His disciples, He speaks also to His followers in the generations that will follow, including and especially the last one, the one that will be alive when He does return. Jesus doesn’t paint a pretty picture either. Wars, rumors of wars, pestilence, false Christs, and persecution — this will be the lot of the world, and the lot of His church. Amazingly enough, looking back through time, we can see just how accurate His predictions were. Therefore, we can trust Him for the predictions not yet fulfilled in our lifetime.

But Jesus didn’t just warn about what was coming. In Matthew 25 He told parables that, if heeded, will prepare His people for when the “Son of Man” returns. Yes, hard times will come, but He will prepare a people to meet Him when He does come back.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 19.*
