---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/07/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Last Years of David,” pp. 746–755, in Patriarchs and Prophets; C. S. Lewis, “ ‘Judgment’ in the Psalms,” pp. 15–22, in Reflections on the Psalms.

“The psalms of David pass through the whole range of experience, from the depths of conscious guilt and self-condemnation to the loftiest faith and the most exalted communing with God. His life record declares that sin can bring only shame and woe, but that God’s love and mercy can reach to the deepest depths, that faith will lift up the repenting soul to share the adoption of the sons of God. Of all the assurances which His word contains, it is one of the strongest testimonies to the faithfulness, the justice, and the covenant mercy of God.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 754.

Referring to the wisdom in the book of Proverbs: “These are principles with which are bound up the well-being of society, of both secular and religious associations. It is these principles that give security to property and life. For all that makes confidence and cooperation possible, the world is indebted to the law of God, as given in His word, and as still traced, in lines often obscure and well-nigh obliterated, in the hearts of men.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 137.

**Discussion Questions:**

`In what ways would you consider yourself a leader or in a position of influence? How can you be an agent of justice in that aspect of your life?`

`Think about the culture and social structures of the place where you live. In what way can you work within the existing system to better the lot of those in need?`

`Why are the principles of justice and fairness so important for building a strong society?`

`While the book of Proverbs is focused on wisdom for living well, what does it tell us about what God is like?`

Summary: Psalms and Proverbs are two books particularly tuned to the challenges of living faithfully amid life’s common experiences and trials. Both offer insights into God’s vision for society and His special concern for the poor and oppressed. The cry of the Psalms and the wisdom of Proverbs are that God does notice and will intervene to protect those too often ignored or exploited. And if that’s what God’s about, it’s what we should be about, as well.