---
title:  A Hard Start
date:   12/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 5:1, 2; Exodus 5:3–23; Exodus 5:22–6:8; Exodus 6:9–13; Exodus 6:28–7:7.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “After Moses and Aaron talked to the people, they went to the king of Egypt. They said, ‘This is what the Lord, the God of Israel says: “Let my people go so they may hold a feast for me in the desert.” ’ But the king of Egypt said, ‘Who is the Lord? Why should I obey him and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord. And I will not let Israel go’ ” (Exodus 5:1, 2, ICB).

Many Christians think that when they decide to follow God, life will be easy and happy. They will always enjoy riches and success. The Bible shows us that things don’t always happen this way. Sometimes our problems get worse. When that happens, we often feel hopeless. We start to ask hard questions about life and God that don’t always have easy answers or any answers at all.

For sure, when we trust in God, we will have hard times. But if we continue to trust in God, He will solve our problems in His way and in His time. Often, we expect God to fix things fast and solve our problems right away. But we must learn to wait and trust Him.

Moses knew about trusting in God during hard times. When God commanded Moses to lead His people out of Egypt, God told Moses exactly what He wanted him to do. So things should be easy for Moses, right?

But as we shall see, things aren’t always that easy.