---
title:  Who Is The Lord?
date:   13/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Moses and Aaron told Pharaoh, king of Egypt, “ ‘The Lordord, the God of Israel, says, ‘Let my people go’ ” (Exodus 5:1, ERV; also read verse 2). How did Pharaoh answer? What does his answer say about him?`

Pharaoh answers, “ ‘Who is the LordLord?’ ” (Exodus 5:2, ERV). Pharaoh isn’t asking this question because he wants to learn about the Lord. Pharaoh’s question shows what is really in his heart: he rejects God as His Lord and Savior.

When Pharaoh says, “ ‘I do not know the Lord’ ” (Exodus 5:2, ICB), he is bragging. He is full of pride.

How many people in history said the same thing that Pharaoh did? The answer should make us feel sad because when people reject God, they reject everlasting life. As Jesus said, “ ‘And this is eternal [everlasting] life: that people can know you, the only true God, and that they can know Jesus Christ, the one you sent’ ” (John 17:3, ERV).

Egypt is a symbol for any group of people who rejects God’s control and His saving power. These people stand against God, the Bible, and His people.

Next, Pharaoh says, “ ‘I will not let Israel go’ ” (Exodus 5:2, ICB). These words show more of his war against the living God. So, we can see that Egypt is a symbol for anyone who rejects God and also fights against Him.

Many Christians saw this same spirit in the French Revolution (also read Isaiah 30:1–3 and Revelation 11:8). A revolution is a complete change in government. Pharaoh thought he was a god or the son of a god. When someone believes he is a god, he believes that his own power, strength, and wisdom are above everyone else’s.

“More than any other country in Bible history, Egypt rejected the living God and refused to obey His commands. The king of Egypt fought against God’s control more than any other king or leader. When Moses announced the Lord’s message to the king, Pharaoh said, ‘Who is the Lord? Why should I obey him and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord. And I will not let Israel go.’ Exodus 5:2 [ICB]. This answer shows that Pharaoh didn’t believe in God. Later in history, another country would say the same thing as Pharaoh. This country [France] also would refuse to accept God’s control or believe in Him. The people of this country would fight against Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 269, adapted.