---
title:  Two Reasons To Honor The Sabbath
date:   14/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Moses must have known that the work God gave him to do wasn’t going to be easy. But Moses did not know what would happen next.

`What happened after Moses and Aaron’s first meeting with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt? Read Exodus 5:3–23 for the answer.`

Before Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh, they met with the leaders and the people of Israel. Moses and Aaron told them God’s message and showed them God’s signs. Israel believed that the Lord would help them escape from slavery. So, the people worshiped the Lord (Exodus 4:29–31).

Next, Moses went to the king of Egypt with God’s message. Then things got worse for the Israelites. The Israelites suffered more each day. Their daily work got harder. The Egyptians blamed the Israelites for being lazy. The Egyptians were mean and nasty to the Israelites.

The Israelite leaders weren’t happy. They met with Moses and Aaron. The meeting between them was ugly. This meeting showed the type of problems that Moses would have with his own people for years to come.

`Read Exodus 5:21, and imagine in your mind that you are these men who challenge Moses and Aaron. Why do you think these men said what they did to Moses and Aaron?`

We can easily see why these men were upset with Moses. (The men say, “ ‘May the Lordord judge and punish you for what you did!’ ” [Exodus 5:21, ERV].) The Israelites expected Moses to help them escape from the Egyptians. The Israelites didn’t expect Moses to make their lives under the Egyptians harder first.

So, Moses and Aaron not only had problems with Pharaoh. Moses and Aaron had problems with their people, too.

`Sooner or later, disagreements will happen in the church. What are some things that you and other church members can do to make peace when disagreements with local church leaders happen?`