---
title:  I Am The Lord
date:   15/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For sure, we easily can feel sorry for Moses. First, Pharaoh scolds him. Now his own people are angry with him.

So, Moses brings his complaint to God. “Then Moses prayed to the Lordord and said, ‘Lord, why have you done this terrible thing to your people? Why did you send me here? I went to Pharaoh and said what you told me to say. But since that time he has made the people suffer, and you have done nothing to help them!’ ” (Exodus 5:22, 23, ERV). We can understand why Moses is unhappy with the Lord.

God’s answer is powerful. God will act in a strong and powerful way, too. “Then the Lordord said to Moses, ‘Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh’ ” (Exodus 6:1, ERV).

`What does God say to Moses? Read Exodus 5:22–6:8 for the answer. What important Bible truths do we learn from God’s answer?`

God will now act to save His people. God helps Moses remember a few important Bible truths: (1) I am the Lordord. (2) I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. (3) I made my Promise with them. (4) I promised to give them the land of Canaan. (5) I heard the complaints and suffering of the Israelites. And (6) I remembered my promise to give you the Promised Land.

Do you see that God says the word “I” again and again? I am the Lord your God. I did this and that. So you can trust that I will do for you what I promised.

The Lord now announces that He will do four big things for Israel because He is their living Lord: (1) “ ‘You will no longer be slaves of the Egyptians’ ” (Exodus 6:6, ERV). (2) “ ‘I will use my great power to make you free’ ” (Exodus 6:6, ERV). (3) “ ‘And I will bring terrible punishment to the Egyptians’ ” (Exodus 6:6, ERV). (4) “ ‘You will be my people and I will be your God. I am the Lordord your God’ ” (Exodus 6:7, ERV).

These four actions show God’s relationship with His people. God offers to do these four things for free for His people because He loves them. He offered these gifts to His people back then. He offers us the same gifts today.

`What other people in the Bible cried out in complaint to God? Why is it OK to tell God what’s in your heart? Why must you always talk to God with faith and trust?`