---
title:  A Very Bad Talker
date:   16/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Lord gave Moses powerful promises about what He will do next. For sure, these promises gave Moses hope.

`What happened next in the story? Read Exodus 6:9–13 for the answer. What lessons does this story teach us? How can these lessons help us during hard times and disappointment in our lives?`

The Hebrews are so sad because of their suffering and hard work. So, they don’t listen to Moses or his encouraging words. Moses tells the Hebrews that God will do what He promised. The Hebrew people have waited so long for God’s help. But they continue to be slaves. Why should things be different now? The Hebrews are losing hope.

We all have felt this way in the past, right? Each one of us, at times, has felt sad, disappointed, and unhappy. We may have felt that God left us all alone.

Remember the story about Job? What about Asaph? Asaph was a Bible poet. Asaph wondered why evil people enjoyed success while good people suffered. Yes, Asaph asked hard questions. At the same time, these questions helped him to write one of the most beautiful poems about faith:

“But I am always with you.\
You have held my hand.\
You guide me with your advice.\
And later you will receive [accept] me in honor.\
I have no one in heaven but you.\
I want nothing on earth besides you.\
My mind and my body may become weak.\
But God is my strength.\
He is mine forever” (Psalm 73:23–26, ICB).

All through the Bible, God promises His people that He is with them (Isaiah 41:13; Matthew 28:20). God gives His people His peace and His comfort. God makes them strong so that they may solve life’s problems better (John 14:27; John 16:33; Philippians 4:6, 7).

God’s Promise with His people says: “ ‘You will be my people and I will be your God. I am the Lordord your God, and you will know that I made you free from Egypt’ ” (Exodus 6:7, ERV). This verse shows us that God wanted a close relationship with His people, Israel.