---
title:  The Same As God To Pharaoh, King Of Egypt
date:   17/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How does the Lord answer Moses? Read Exodus 6:28–7:7 for the answer.`

God appears to Moses as Yahweh. The name Yahweh shows that He is a God who wants a close, personal relationship with His people. As part of this relationship, God made promises to His people.

This same God again commands Moses to go and talk with Pharaoh. Moses again tells God why he can’t do what God asks: “ ‘I don’t speak very well. So why would Pharaoh listen to me?’ ” (Exodus 6:30, NIrV). Again, we see that Moses has no pride in his heart. At the same time, we also see that Moses doesn’t want to do what God asks Him to do. So far, things haven’t gone very well for Moses.

“When God ordered Moses to go back to Pharaoh, Moses showed that he didn’t trust in himself. The words ‘don’t speak very well’ come from words in the Hebrew language that are much the same as Moses’ words in Exodus 4:10: “ ‘I speak slowly’ (ERV).”—Andrews Bible Commentary: Old Testament, “Exodus” (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2020), page 205, adapted.

God in His mercy sends Aaron to help Moses. Moses will tell Aaron God’s messages. Then Aaron will speak in public to Pharaoh. So, Moses will be the same as God in front of the Egyptian king. Aaron will be Moses’ special messenger.

This story gives us an excellent understanding of the work that a special messenger or prophet does. A prophet speaks for God. A prophet communicates God’s word to His people and explains His messages. Moses talked to Aaron, and then Aaron announced Moses’ words to Pharaoh. In the same way, God communicates with the Bible prophets. Then the prophets announce God’s teaching to the people. Sometimes the prophets hear God’s message and then announce it. More often, the prophets wrote down God’s message first and then shared it with the people.

God also explains to Moses what he can expect from his meeting with Pharaoh. God warns Moses that the meeting will be long and difficult. For the second time, God tells Moses that God will cause Pharaoh to be stubborn (Exodus 4:21; Exodus 7:3). Everything will turn out well because the Egyptians will learn that the Lord is God (Exodus 7:5). So, in the end, the Egyptians will honor and respect God.