---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Plagues of Egypt,” pages 257–265, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Look at how badly things started off for Moses and the Israelites after Moses went to Pharaoh, king of Egypt:

“The king was very upset. He believed that the Israelites were trying to get out of serving him. He thought the Israelites were lazy. Pharaoh believed the Israelites made plans against him because they weren’t working hard enough. Pharaoh would make sure that the people had no time left to make plans against him. Right away, Pharaoh gave orders to make their slavery worse and to destroy their spirit of independence. In Egypt, the buildings were made of sun-dried bricks. The finest buildings were made of these bricks and then covered with stone. Many slaves were needed to make all these bricks. The bricks were made with cut straw. The straw held the bricks together. So, the slaves needed a lot of straw to make the bricks. The king now ordered the Egyptians to stop giving straw to the Israelites. The Israelites must collect their own straw. At the same time, the Israelites must continue to make the same number of bricks as before.

“This order upset the Israelites everywhere. The Egyptian masters put Hebrew managers in charge of the work of making the bricks. These Hebrew managers were responsible for the work of the Hebrews under them. When the slaves learned about the king’s order, they went everywhere in the land to collect the straw. But they couldn’t find enough straw to get their work done. So, Pharaoh ordered the Hebrew managers to be beaten.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 258, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think of a time when you did what God wanted and things didn’t go well or start off well. What hard lessons did you learn from that experience?`

`Share how God helped you when you prayed for His help or gave you help when you didn’t expect it. How can we learn to trust in God to help us when bad things happen?`

`How can you help someone who doesn’t know the Lord? How can you help him understand why knowing God is so important?`