---
title:  “Every Living Thing On The Earth”
date:  10/04/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 3:6; Genesis 6:5, 11, 18; Genesis 9:12—17; Isaiah 4:3; Revelation 12:17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But Noah pleased the LORD” (Genesis 6:8, ERV).

ADAM AND EVE eat the forbidden fruit. Their sin changes everything. Now sin and death become part of human history. Humans are born on an earth that is no longer perfect. Evil fills hearts that were made to love God. Soon evil and sin fill the whole earth.

What do we know about the people who live before the Flood? They are strong. They are much stronger than we are today. They are also full of energy and life. They are super smart too. They do not get sick easily. They have the gifts of health, powerful minds, and long lives. God gives them so many precious gifts. But almost all of the people use their gifts in selfish ways. The people stop worshiping God as the One who made them. They worship gods that they make and the works of their own hands. They forget all about God. God gave them wonderful powers. But they use them to do evil. They love sin. They sin in every way possible. They enjoy spending their time thinking of new ways to sin more and more. They refuse to stop sinning against God. They will not turn back to Him in their hearts. Almost everyone living on the earth at that time fights against God in his or her heart. God chooses to stop this war against His government and His law of love. He sends a Flood that will drown the whole earth with water.