---
title:  An Important Rule About Sin 
date:  11/04/2021
---

God finishes making the earth and the sky. He looks at all that He made. He sees that everything “was very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). Then sin changes everything. Things are not “very good” anymore. Sin spoils everything. Awful things happen. Humans fully turn against God. They sin more and more. By the time of Noah, evil fills the earth. The Bible does not give us much information about this time. But we can see that God will not allow the evil to continue.

How do things get so bad so fast?

**Read the verses below. What do you learn from each one? Write down your answers on the lines below. Do you see how sin grows worse and worse with each verse?**

`1. Genesis 3:6`

`2. Genesis 3:11–13`

`3. Genesis 4:5`

`4. Genesis 4:8`

`5. Genesis 4:19`

`6. Genesis 4:23`

`7. Genesis 6:2`

`8. Genesis 6:5, 11`

Genesis 6:5 and verse 11 happen for a reason. This awful happening has a cause. A history of sin leads up to this time. Sin gets worse and worse. That is how sin works. Sin is not the same as a cut. When we get cut, our skin starts to heal the cut right away. But sin does not work that way. If sin is left alone, it continues to grow until it ends in ruin and death. Sin works the same way today.

No wonder God hates sin. No wonder that sooner or later, God will end it. What else can a loving and fair God do with sin? Nothing. That is why sin must “die,” because God is who He is. He is love. God wants to end sin. At the same time, God wants to save sinners: that is what His special agreement is all about.