---
title:  The Man Noah 
date:  12/04/2021
---

**Before the Flood, the earth is filled with sin and evil people everywhere. But there is someone who is different from the people of his time. That man is Noah. Read Genesis 6:9. What does this verse say about Noah? On the lines below write your answers about what you think each part of the verse means**:

`1. Noah “was a good man all his life” (ERV):`

`2. Noah “was without blame among the people of his time” (NIrV)`

`3. Noah “always followed God” (ERV):`

Noah knows the Lord as his personal Savior. Noah is someone that the Lord can work with. Noah will listen to God, obey Him, and trust in Him. That is why the Lord can use Noah to build the boat. In the New Testament, Peter names Noah “a preacher of right living” (2 Peter 2:5, NLV).

`Read Genesis 6:8. How does this verse help us understand the special connection between Noah and God?`

The first time we see the word “favor” in the Bible is in Genesis 6:8 (NLV). The word “favor” has the same meaning here in the Old Testament as it does in the New Testament. Another word for “favor” is “grace.” Grace or favor is the gift of mercy from God to sinners. God gives us His gift of mercy to forgive us for our sins. We can do nothing to earn His forgiveness. We must accept it freely by faith. Remember, Noah is a good man. But he is also a sinner who needs grace. So, Noah is no different from any of us who are trying to follow the Lord with all our hearts.

`Noah needs grace the same as we do. Ask yourself: How am I the same as Noah? Do people say that I am good and follow the Lord? Write down the reasons for your answer.`