---
title:  The Agreement With Noah 
date:  13/04/2021
---

**‘I will make a special agreement with you. You, your wife, your sons, and their wives will all go into the boat’ ” (Genesis 6:18, ERV).**

Genesis 6:18 shows us the basic parts of the special agreement that God makes with humans: God and humans enter this agreement together. Very simple, right?

Yes, but there is far more to this agreement, as we shall see. First, Genesis 6:18 shows us that the special agreement includes human obedience. God says to Noah that he and his family shall go into the boat. So, they have their part to do. If they do not do their part, then they break the agreement. What if Noah says No to God? Or what if Noah says Yes, but then changes his mind later? What do you think will happen to Noah and his family?

`God says that the agreement is “ ‘My agreement’ ” (Genesis 6:18, NLV). What does the word “My” show us about the agreement with God? What if God names the agreement “our agreement”? How will that make things different? Why is it important that God says that the agreement is His?`

A special agreement with God is always between God and humans. The word “My” helps us to see that God is showing Noah His loving-favor or grace. As we saw yesterday, grace is the gift of mercy that God gives to sinners. God gives us His gift of mercy to forgive us for our sins. So, “My” helps us to see that this special agreement is not between two equals. Humans are not equal with God. God does not depend on us for anything. That is why the covenant is His and not ours. You may ask, “But God gets something from the agreement, right?” Not in the way that we do. God can give us the gift of everlasting life when we accept His agreement. Our being saved makes God very happy (Isaiah 53:11). But the joy God gets from saving us is not the same as God getting anything from the agreement.

Here is a picture story to help explain the special agreement. A man falls off a boat during a storm. Someone on the boat says he will throw a rope to the man in the water. But the man in the water must agree to grab the rope. That is how the special agreement between God and sinners works. We must accept what God gives us to save us.