---
title:  The Promise Of The Rainbow 
date:  14/04/2021
---

**And God said, ‘I will give you something to prove that I made this promise to you. It will continue forever to show that I have made an agreement with you and every living thing on earth. I am putting a rainbow in the clouds as proof of the agreement between me and the earth’ ” (Genesis 9:12, 13, ERV).**

Few things in nature are more beautiful than the rainbow. Do you remember the first rainbow you saw as a child? Even as adults, our hearts can be filled with wonder as we look at all those beautiful colors of the rainbow in the clouds. No wonder so many people today use the rainbow as a sign or word picture for so many things. (Just for fun, look up the word “rainbow” on the Web and see how many different groups and people use it to mean different things.) The beautiful colors of the rainbow continue to touch our hearts and minds.

`Read Genesis 9:12–17. As these verses show us, what does the Lord say that the rainbow will be proof of?`

The Lord says that the rainbow will be proof of “ ‘My agreement’ ” (Genesis 9:15, NLV). The meaning of the word “agreement” is different in this verse than in other places in the Bible. The agreement that God makes with Abraham or with Moses at Sinai include things that Abraham and Israel must do. But in the agreement with Noah, God does not ask humans to do anything, not even Noah. God announces His promise to all humans everywhere. God also makes this promise to “ ‘every living thing on the earth’ ” (Genesis 9:15, ERV). This promise will “ ‘continue forever’ ” (Genesis 9:12, ERV). The promise of God is worldwide. His promise includes everyone. What about the people who choose not to obey God? The promise includes them too. That is why the idea of the word “agreement” is different in Genesis 9 than it is anywhere else in the Bible.

`How does the agreement with Noah show the loving-favor of God to sinners? Who started this agreement? Who gets all the good things that are promised?`

`How can Bible truth about the rainbow and what it promises help us to be obedient to the Lord?`