---
title:  Only Noah Was Left 
date:  15/04/2021
---

**So God destroyed from the earth every living thing that was on the land. This was every man, animal, crawling thing and bird of the sky. All that was left was Noah and what was with him in the boat” (Genesis 7:23, ICB).**

In this verse, we see the idea of a “remnant” for a first time in the Bible. A remnant is a small group that is leftover or saved from a larger group. The words in Genesis 7:23 that are written as “was left” come from another word in Hebrew that is used many times in the Old Testament to show the idea of a remnant. Let us look at some examples. The words in the verses that show the idea of a “remnant” are written below in bold print:

Joseph says to his brothers: “ ‘But God sent me ahead of you to keep some of you alive on earth’ ” (Genesis 45:7, NIrV).

“And all those [people] who are left in Zion and Jerusalem will be called [named] holy. Their names were on the list of people in Jerusalem who were allowed to live” (Isaiah 4:3, ERV).

“At that time the Lord will reach out his hand. He will gather [save] his people a second time. He will bring back those [people] who are left alive” (Isaiah 11:11, NIrV).

`Look at Genesis 7:23 and the other examples we just studied. What do they show us about the meaning of the words “who are left” or “remnant”? What causes God to make a remnant? What is the connection between the special agreement and the remnant?`

At the time of the Flood, the One who made this earth becomes the Judge of the earth. The Flood will be worldwide. Who will live? Who will be destroyed? Who will be part of the small group, or remnant, that lives?

The answer is: Noah and his family. The life of Noah is connected to the agreement he has with God (Genesis 6:18). This agreement started with God, who gives mercy and forgiveness. Noah and his family live only because God saves them. Yes, Noah must work together with God. But Noah can do nothing to save himself or his family. Their only hope is to trust in God to show them mercy.