---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/04/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Flood,” pages 90–104, and “After the Flood,” pages 105–110, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“God promises not to destroy the earth again by a flood. The rainbow is a fitting sign of this promise. The Flood will cause awful changes to the whole earth. Rain will replace the dew that made the ground wet. So, God needs something to help humans after the Flood not to fear each time rain starts to fall. The spiritual mind can see how the beautiful things of nature show us God (read Romans 1:20). That is why God chose to give the rainbow as proof of His promise. The rainbow shows the one who believes in God that the rain will bring blessing, not worldwide ruin.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 265, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“In those days the earth is filled with many people. More and more people continue to fill the earth. The people behave wildly and make a lot of noise. They act the same as a noisy, wild bull. The noise wakes up the top god Enlil. Enlil says to the other gods, ‘The humans on earth are making too much noise. We can no longer get any sleep.” So the gods agree to destroy humans with a flood.”—“The Story of the Flood” in The Epic of Gilgamesh, written in English by N. K. Sanders (London: The Penguin Group, 1972), page 108, adapted. Compare this reason for the Flood to the reason the Bible gives us. How are they the same? How are they different?`

`Noah does more than warn the people in his day about the coming Flood. Noah also helps them see their need of forgiveness for their sins. Why is the Bible truth about being saved from sin not very popular with most people, then or now? Make a list of things that stop people from accepting the saving plan of God for their lives. Talk about your ideas in class.`

**Summary**: This week, we saw that the agreements that God makes with Noah are the first agreements that the Bible talks about. These agreements show us the love of God and His interest in the human family. God wants to save us, just as He saved Noah. Noah has faith in God. His faith saves him and his family from the worldwide Flood.

“God wants the rainbow in the clouds to make our faith strong. He gave us the rainbow to help us trust Him. The rainbow shows us the mercy of God. Sin causes God to destroy the earth by a Flood. But the mercy of God continues to fill the earth.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 71, adapted.