---
title:  Borrowing and spending
date:   11/03/2018
---

2 Kings 6 tells the story of Elisha and a group of men.They went to the Jordan River to cut down trees to build a house. One of the men was cutting down a tree.The iron blade of his ax fell into the water. “ ‘Oh no, master [Elisha]!’ [the man] cried out. ‘This ax was borrowed!’” (2 Kings 6:5, NIrV).The verb “to borrow” means that a person is allowed to use something that belongs to someone else. We must be careful not to break or lose something we borrow. We must take good care of it. Borrowing money is no different than the borrowed ax blade that fell into the water. But borrowed money can cause worse problems when it is not used in the right way. 

The only reason we borrow money is to buy things. But we take a risk when we borrow money. We might not be able to pay back the loan. Also, something else might happen in the future that could stop us from paying back the money. We do not know the future (Ecclesiastes 8:7). So, borrowing money means we accept risk. 

`What do Psalm 37:21; Ecclesiastes 5:5; and Deuteronomy 28:44, 45 say about the reasons why we should try not to owe money to anyone?` 

We may borrow money and hope to use it wisely. But it is too easy to spend in wrong ways the money we borrowed. That can lead to problems. Borrowing money allows us to live richer lives than we can afford. Most people borrow and spend more than they should because they feel that owning a lot of stuff is the most important thing in life. So, what should we do when we want to borrow money to buy things we do not need and cannot afford? We should ask God for help. God promises that He will give us a “way to escape” from sin (1 Corinthians 10:13, ERV). 

Borrowing money can cause us to suffer if we are not careful (Deuteronomy 28:43–45). So, do not start the bad habit of borrowing money. What if you already have borrowed money? Then you need to make a plan to pay it back as soon as you can. We must learn to spend money wisely. We must not let money control us. There will be times when we need to borrow money. But we must borrow carefully. We must pay that money back as soon as we can. 

`How can we hurt our spirits when we borrow too much?`