---
title:  The dangers of getting what you want anytime you want it
date:   12/03/2018
---

“Then Jacob gave Esau bread and vegetable soup. Esau ate and drank and then left. So Esau showed how little he cared about his rights [the special gifts and power he was allowed to have] as the firstborn [oldest child] son” (Genesis 25:34, ICB). Esau was a strong and tough man. He loved being outdoors. He did what he wanted. And he wanted his brother’s stew as soon as he smelled it. Esau was hungry. But he was not dying from hunger. Instead, he was controlled by his strong feelings. He let his hunger control his good sense. So, Esau traded away the special gifts and power that were his as the oldest son. He traded them to get what he wanted right away. Later, Esau wanted those special gifts and power back. He also wanted Isaac, his father, to bless him. This blessing from Isaac came with the special gifts and power of being the oldest son. Remember, Esau already had given these special gifts and power to Jacob for some soup. “But [Esau] did not get [his father’s blessing] even when he asked for it with tears. It was too late to make right [to correct] the wrong he had done” (Hebrews 12:17, NLV). 

What a big difference there was between Esau and Jesus! Jesus ate nothing for 40 days. After 40 days, He was starving for food. Then Satan came to Jesus. Three times Satan tried to get Jesus to do wrong (Matthew 4:3–10). But Jesus saw clearly that Satan was trying to trick Him. Jesus was weak with hunger. But He did not sin. Jesus lived His whole life saying “No” to sin. Jesus also said “No” to getting what He wanted anytime He wanted it. He showed we could have power over sin. Jesus was different from Esau. Jesus did not trade away the riches God promised to Him as God’s only Son. And now, Jesus invites all people to share those special gifts with Him (Romans 8:17; Titus 3:7). Satan will try to steal those gifts from us. So, we must do the same thing Jesus did when Satan tried to lead Jesus into sin (1 Corinthians 10:13). We must trust God to help us escape the trap. 

`Read 2 Samuel 11:2–4; Genesis 3:6; Philippians 3:19; 1 John 2:16; and Romans 8:8. What do these verses teach about the dangers of getting what you want anytime you want it? How is this danger real, even for those people who are loyal to God?`