---
title:  Buying only what you can afford
date:   13/03/2018
---

“Wise people store [save] up the best food and olive oil. But foolish people eat up everything they have” (Proverbs 21:20, NIrV). This verse shows that wise managers are different from bad managers who waste things. Foolish people do not spend their money wisely. They are greedy. They spend all the money they have. They also spend money they do not have. They do not want to be careful with money. Why? They feel they are on a “diet” when they must be careful with money. They feel “hungry all the time” and want more. In the same way, they feel that taking care of money is too hard to do. We might need to borrow money sometime. Or we might need a loan to buy a house. But we must be careful not to spend more than we can pay back. 

The Bible gives us wise advice about not spending more money than we have and buying only what we can afford. Paul tells us we should lead very plain lives. We should not own more than we need: “If we have food and clothing, let us be happy” (1 Timothy 6:8, NLV). Paul does not feel the things he owns are very important. He understands that true living means having Jesus. And that is enough (Philippians 1:21). 

`Read Matthew 6:33. What important rule is taught in this verse? What does it say we must do before we do anything else? How can we be sure we are doing it?` 

We should not think of our paychecks as something we earn. Instead, we should manage our paychecks as gifts from God. A budget will help us manage our money. Planning a budget is a special skill. But we need to make the time to learn how to budget our money. We must be strict in practicing good spending habits. Then we will succeed at managing our money wisely (Proverbs 4:15). And we will avoid making terrible mistakes with our money. 

Are you having problems managing your money? Then make a budget. It does not have to be a hard plan to follow. Make a plan that is easy to follow. Then you will succeed at following it. First, add the total for everything you spend for a month. Then subtract this amount from what you earn each month. This budget will help you live on what you make. It will help you avoid borrowing and owing money. 

`Read the story in Luke 14:27–30. How does this story teach us to be good managers?`