---
title:  Not owing money
date:   14/03/2018
---

`Read Deuteronomy 28:12. What does this verse teach us about the dangers of owing too much money?` 

It makes good sense to avoid owing money. The Bible also warns us not to promise to pay other people’s bills (Proverbs 17:18; Proverbs 22:26). Owing money makes us slaves. We cannot be free until we pay back the money we owe. But too often, Christians have trouble saying “No” to borrowing money. Then they have trouble managing money once they owe it. Owing money is not a sin. But it certainly does not make our spiritual lives any stronger. 

“We must follow strict habits of spending money. Or we will owe a lot of bills. So, we must be careful not to spend money we do not have. We must avoid owing money in the same way we would avoid getting a terrible disease.” —Ellen G.White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Taking care of everything God gives us], page 272, adapted. 

We said that owing money can make us slaves. It is true: “borrowers are slaves to lenders” (Proverbs 22:7, NIrV). Owing money is a big part of our lives. So, we start to think of owing money as normal. After all, many countries borrow and owe lots of money. So, why not let people do the same thing? But this thinking is wrong. 

“Make an agreement with God that with His help you will pay back all you owe until you owe nothing. Agree to do it even if it means you must live on porridge and bread until you pay everything back. It is easy when you prepare your meals to spend a little more here and there for extras. Instead, save your pennies. Then the dollars will be saved when that happens. It is the pennies here and the pennies there that we spend for this, that, and the other thing that soon add up to dollars. Say ‘No’ to having anything you want at least while you owe money. . . . Do not wait too long to do the right thing. Do not lose hope or turn back from paying off the money you owe. Do whatever it takes to save your money and pay back the money you borrowed. Pay the money you owe as soon as you can. Owe no one anything. Then you will have won a great victory.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Taking care of everything God gives us], page 257, adapted. 

`What choices can you make right now to help you not spend money on things you do not need?`