---
title:  Saving and investing money
date:   15/03/2018
---

Ants work hard to save food for winter (Proverbs 6:6–8). We should think about their wise ways. It would help us to save money for our needs in the future. Then we will have money ready when we need it. We need wisdom to know how to manage our money, plan a budget, and spend wisely. We must save for more than our needs. We must use our money to help finish God’s work on the earth. Using our money only for ourselves is the same as stealing from God. 

“We should not spend money on things we do not need. We lose two things when we buy things we do not need. First, the money is gone. Second, the power of that money to make you more money is also gone. But what if we saved money instead of spending it? Then our money could have grown larger on earth by putting it in savings. Our money also could have grown larger in its value in heaven by our giving it to God. . . . Saving money is a special skill. Saving money gives us control over money instead of letting money control us.”—Randy C. Alcorn, Money, Possessions [Belongings], and Eternity [Everlasting Life] (Carol Stream: IL, Tyndale House Publishers, 2003), page 328, adapted. 

`Read Proverbs 13:11; Proverbs 21:5; and Proverbs` 

13:18. What useful advice is given to us in these verses that can help us manage our money better? 

Wise managers save for family needs. They also invest in heaven when taking care of God’s property. How you manage the money you have is more important than how much money you have. Managing your money wisely means having a good plan that follows Bible teachings. Saving money for your family’s needs should be done wisely. The Bible says to “invest what you have in several different businesses” (Ecclesiastes 11:2, ICB). Why? Because you risk losing all your money at the same time if you invest it all in the same place (Ecclesiastes 11:2). Also, ask money experts for advice (Proverbs 15:22).Meet your needs.Then your riches will grow. But be sure to “remember the Lord your God! It is he who gives you the power to become rich” (Deuteronomy 8:18, ICB). 

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:18. What truth do we find in this verse? Why is it important to remember this truth while we try to be good managers of everything God gives us?`