---
title:  Additional thought
date:   16/03/2018
---

Every skill, talent, or gift we have comes from God. The important question is: What will we do with the gifts God gives us? God wants His servants to learn how to use the skills He gives them (Ecclesiastes 10:10). So, education, training, and experience are very important. These things help our skills grow and improve. 

Yes, we live on an earth filled with people who seem to value riches more than spiritual things. But we must become better managers. Then we can show people a better way of life. We always should improve our skills by reading, going to special classes and lectures, going to school, and practicing what we learn. When we improve our skills, then we can give our best to God and be good managers for Him. 

The picture story of the talents shows that each servant received the amount of talents that he “would be able to care for” (Matthew 25:15, ICB). Two servants earned double their amounts.But the third servant hid his talent in the ground.This picture story teaches us an important lesson: we always should work hard to improve everything God gives us.We do not show any growth in our ability or skills when we “hide our talents in the ground.” So, we should learn how to manage money and pay back what we owe. We should practice self-control. We must carefully follow a budget. These things are skills God can bless. Remember, we become a success at doing something only when we do it again and again. 

“We must follow the lessons of the Bible each day. Then these lessons will do their work.They will change us.Timothy practiced these lessons. He had no special talents. But his work was valuable. Why? Because Timothy used the skills God gave him to serve God.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders and Teachers], page 205, adapted 

**Discussion questions** 

`1. Self-control is very important. Having no self-control can lead us to ruin. What can we do as a church to help those who are in this danger?` 

`2. Read Romans 13:7, 8. What truth do these verses show us? How can we practice this truth in our lives each day?` 

`3. Some say, “Do not worry about owing a lot of money.You will not have to pay it back when Jesus comes.” What would you say to someone who thinks this way?` 