---
title:  Creation in Scripture
date:  28/05/2020
---

**Read the following texts and write down how each writer referenced Genesis 1–11:**

`Matt. 19:4, 5`

`Mark 10:6–9`

`Luke 11:50, 51`

`John 1:1–3`

`Acts 14:15`

`Rom. 1:20`

`2 Cor. 4:6`

`Eph. 3:9`

`1 Tim. 2:12–15`

`James 3:9`

`1 Pet. 3:20`

`Jude 11, 14`

`Rev. 2:7; Rev. 3:14; Rev. 22:2, 3`

Jesus and all of the New Testament writers refer to Genesis 1–11 as reliable history. Jesus refers to Moses’ writings and the creation of male and female (Matt. 19:4). Paul often uses the Creation account to substantiate the theological points he makes in his epistles. He declared to the learned men of Athens, “The God who made the world and all things in it, since He is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands” (Acts 17:24, NASB). In these ways, the New Testament writers built on the foundational nature of Genesis to show the modern reader the significance of this literal event.

Read Romans 5. More than half a dozen times, Paul makes a link from Adam to Jesus (see Rom. 5:12, 14–19). That is, he assumes the literal existence of a historical Adam, a position that becomes fatally compromised when an evolutionary model of origins replaces a literal reading of the texts.

`If the New Testament writers, inspired by the Holy Spirit and Jesus Himself, viewed the Creation account as reliable history, why would it be foolish for us—based on the claims of fallen, fallible human beings— not to do the same?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

As related to the first Adam, men receive from him nothing but guilt and the sentence of death. But Christ steps in and passes over the ground where Adam fell, enduring every test in man’s behalf. … Christ’s perfect example and the grace of God are given him to enable him to train his sons and daughters to be sons and daughters of God. It is by teaching them, line upon line, precept upon precept, how to give the heart and will up to Christ that Satan’s power is broken.—Child Guidance, pp. 475, 476.

As your senses delight in the attractive loveliness of the earth, think of the world that is to come, that shall never know the blight of sin and death; where the face of nature will no more wear the shadow of the curse. Let your imagination picture the home of the saved, and remember that it will be more glorious than your brightest imagination can portray. In the varied gifts of God in nature we see but the faintest gleaming of His glory. It is written, “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him.” 1 Corinthians 2:9.

The poet and the naturalist have many things to say about nature, but it is the Christian who enjoys the beauty of the earth with the highest appreciation, because he recognizes his Father’s handiwork and perceives His love in flower and shrub and tree. No one can fully appreciate the significance of hill and vale, river and sea, who does not look upon them as an expression of God’s love to man.—Steps to Christ, pp. 86, 87.

There is beauty in the valley’s awful grandeur, in the solemn, massive, cleft rocks; there is majesty in the towering mountains that look as if they touched the heavens. There are the lofty trees with their delicately formed leaves; the spires of grass, the opening bud and blossoming flower, the forest trees, and every living thing. They all point the mind to the great and living God. Every faculty of our being testifies that there is a living God, and we may learn from the open book of nature the most precious lessons in regard to the Lord of heaven.

In this study the mind expands, is elevated and uplifted, and becomes hungry to know more of God and His majesty. We have awakened in our hearts feelings not only of reverence and awe but of love, of faith, of trust and entire dependence upon One who is the giver of all good. And as I look at His marvelous works and see the evidences of His power I instinctively inquire, “What is man that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?” Psalm 8:4.

He has made all these things, and designs that we shall see God in His created works. These things are to keep God in our remembrance and to lift our hearts from sensual things and bind them in bonds of love and gratitude to our Creator.—Our High Calling, p. 250.