---
title:  Jesus and the Seven Gold Lamps
date:   05/01/2019
---

_John’s vision about Jesus in the sanctuary helped John to trust that Jesus was with him and cared for him._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 1:9–2:5

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “ ‘Everyone who hears this [mes­ sage] should listen to what the Spirit says to the churches’ ” (Revelation 2:7, ERV).

**THE WRITER OF PSALM 73** is confused by something he sees in life: people who do not follow God have more than they need. At the same time, God’s true followers suffer deeply. These things upset the writer of the psalm (Psalm 73:2–6). Life does not seem fair at all! The writer wants answers. So, he goes to find them in God’s sanctuary (Psalm 73:16, 17). God’s sanctuary was the place on earth where God lived with His people before Solomon built God a temple.

Several hundred years later, Jesus’ follower John was sent to the small island of Patmos. On this rocky “jail,” John learned some news that upset him. People who did not love God or believe in Him hurt the churches that John was in charge of. Then God gave John a vision to help him understand things better. John saw Jesus in heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctu- ary is the place where Jesus works right now to save and help His people. John’s vision helped him trust that Jesus cared for him. Jesus gave this same message to the writer of Psalm 73 many hundreds of years before. Jesus wanted John to give this message about His love to His people living in John’s day and to Christians living in our time too. This week we will look at (1) the work Jesus does for us right now in heaven and (2) His first special message to one of the seven churches in Asia.