---
title:  John On Patmos 
date:   06/01/2019
---

_Jesus came to John with words of hope and support while John was a prisoner on Patmos._

`In Revelation 1:9, John tells us the reason he was put on Patmos. Why was he there?`

Patmos was a rocky island in the Aegean Sea. Not many plants grew on Patmos. The island was 10 miles long and 6 miles wide at its widest part. The Romans used Patmos and the islands around it as a prison. The Romans sent people who broke the law to these islands. There were some Christian writers alive at about the same time that John wrote the book of Revelation on Patmos. All these writers agree that the Romans sent John to Patmos because he was loyal to the Good News about Jesus. John was very old when he was sent to Patmos. He must have suffered many awful things as a Roman prisoner. No doubt the Roman guards in charge of the prisoners were not nice to John. No doubt John was chained, not given enough food, and forced to work hard or get beaten if he did not do it.

“Patmos was an empty, rocky island in the Aegean Sea. The leaders of Rome chose Patmos as a place to send criminals. But to John, who was God’s servant, this dark and sad prison became the gate to heaven. Here on Patmos, John was shut away from the busy rush of life and from all the work he did in his past. On this island, God Himself and Jesus were John’s Friends. The angels from heaven were his friends too. God and His angels gave John the messages and information that the church needed for that time and for all the future.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], pages 570, 571, adapted.

`Who are some other people in the Bible who suffered hard times? Did they suffer because they were loyal to God? As examples, look at the stories of Bible heroes found in Daniel 3:16–23 and Acts 7:54–60.`

Jesus’ followers always should remember that God never leaves them alone, even during the worst times. Remember that Jesus came to John with words of hope and support while John was a prisoner on Patmos. This same Jesus continues to be with His people and to give them hope and support in difficult times.

`How can we learn to trust the Lord always?`