---
title:  On The Lord’S Day
date:   07/01/2019
---

_When John got the mes­ sage, maybe he felt it was the same as getting a small taste of fruit from the tree of life in heaven!_

`Read Revelation 1:10. Now read Exodus 31:13; Isaiah 58:13; and Matthew 12:8. All of these verses clearly show the name of the day that belongs to the Lord. Which day of the week is it? God gave John his visions on the Lord’s Day when John was a prisoner on Patmos. How much comfort do you think the Lord’s Day gave John during this hard time?`

“The Lord appeared in shining beauty on the Sabbath day to John the apostle. [An apostle was one of the 12 men Jesus chose to lead His church after He went back to heaven.] John had been sent as a prisoner to the island of Patmos.There, John honored the Sabbath as much as he did when he preached to people in the towns and cities of Judea. God gave many pre- cious promises in the Bible to His followers about the Sabbath. John trusted those promises.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 581, adapted.

John does not say in the first verse of his book that the message God gave him happened on the Sabbath day. But Revelation 1:10 uses the words “on the Lord’s Day” (NLV) to give us a big hint that God gave John His message on the 7th-day Sabbath. Some people think that “the Lord’s Day” that John talks about in Revelation 1:10 is really the same as “the day of the Lord” that Isaiah and Peter talk about (Isaiah 13:6–13; 2 Peter 3:10). But these two days are not the same. The Lord’s Day is the 7th-day Sabbath. But “the day of the Lord” that Isaiah and Peter talk about is Jesus’ Second Coming. John was looking for- ward to that day with all his heart. But that is not the same day that John means in Revelation 1:10 when he says that God gave him the message about future happenings on the Lord’s Day. God gave John His message on “the Lord’s day,” the Sabbath.

No doubt the message that God gives John on Sabbath made him feel better. When John got the message, maybe he felt it was the same as getting a small taste of fruit from the tree of life in heaven! In the same way, the Jews teach that the Sabbath gives us a small “taste” of something wonderful. In the Hebrew language, this thing is named the “olam haba.” The “olam haba” means “the life to come.”

`How does the Sabbath help us remember that God made us and saves us? Why must we always remember this truth?`