---
title:  Jesus And The Seven Gold Lamps
date:   08/01/2019
---

_Jesus walks between the lamps to show that He will keep His promise to Israel. He always will be with His people (Leviticus 26:12)._

`In Revelation 1:12–18, John gives us a picture of Jesus. How is John’s picture of Jesus the same as, or different from, the one Daniel gives us in Daniel 10:5, 6? What does Jesus do in John’s vision?`

John sees Jesus in heaven. Jesus wears the clothes worn by a high priest. A high priest is a holy leader who works to save his people. Jesus is our High Priest in heav- en. Jesus wears the High Priest’s robe as He walks around seven gold lamps. The Jewish temple had lamps that looked the same as the lamps in heaven. The lamps gave light to the Jewish temple (read 1 Kings 7:49).

In John’s message from God, John watches Jesus, who “walks among [between] the seven lights [lamps] made of gold” (Revelation 2:1, NLV). What Jesus does here is a word picture. It helps God’s people remember God’s prom- ise to His people. God promised to walk with His people as their God (Leviticus 26:12). In Revelation, the seven lamps are word pictures for the seven churches in Asia (Revelation 1:20). (The lamps also are a word picture for God’s church from John’s day until the end of time.) Jesus asked John to send the book of Revelation to the seven churches in Asia (Revelation 1:20). Jesus walks between the lamps to show that He will keep His promise to Israel. He always will be with His people.

The picture of Jesus walking between the lamps as our Priest shows us something else that Jesus does for us. The lamps in the Jerusalem temple help us better understand what that thing is. Every day, a priest watched the lamps in the Holy Room in the Jerusalem temple to make sure the lights burned brightly. The priest filled the lamps with fresh oil. He lit the lamps again. The priest learned what he needed to do to keep the lights shining. In the same way, Jesus knows the needs of each church and knows what to do to take care of all His people.

`Read Revelation 2:2, 9, 13, 19 and Revelation 3:1, 8, 15. In these verses, Jesus says “ ‘I know’ ” when He talks about the needs of His people in the seven churches. What do these words show us about how much Jesus loves His people and knows what they need?`