---
title:  The Seven Churches
date:   09/01/2019
---

_The things that were true for Christians living in one time or place also may be true for Christians living in a different time or place._

`In Revelation 1:11, 19, 20, Jesus tells John to send mes­ sages to the seven churches in Asia. There were more churches in Asia than just these seven. But these seven churches were the only ones to get messages from Jesus. How do these facts help us to see that the churches are word pictures for the Christian church at different times in history? We know that the seven churches are signs. How does that help us to see that God’s messages to the seven churches in Asia also are messages for all His people?`

Jesus gave John messages to send to the seven churches in Asia. John wrote these messages down in Revelation 2 and 3. We can understand the meaning of each message in three ways: First, the messages help us understand history. The seven churches in the rich cities in Asia suffered many hard times. Several cities worshiped the High King of Rome in their temples. People worshiped the High King to show they were loyal to Rome. Then Rome made a law that forced people in Roman cities to worship the High King of Rome. Citizens of these Roman cities also were told they must join the celebra- tions that were public and pagan. “Pagan” means the people worshiped nature and many gods. What happened when Christians refused to join in these big pagan parties? They were forced to go to court. Sometimes they were put to death.

Jesus gave John the seven messages to help His people who suffered these hard times.

Second, the messages help us understand future happenings. The spiritual health of each of the seven churches is a word picture that shows us the spiritual health of God’s church during different times in history. The seven messages that John writes help us see how strong or weak the Christian religion was or is, from early in the first century a.d. (years 3–100) until Jesus comes.

**Third, the messages help us understand Christians in different times and places**. John sent the seven messages together in one letter for every church to read (Revelation 1:11). That helps us to see that the things that were true for Christians living in one time or place also may be true for Christians living in a different time or place.

`Make a picture in your mind of God writing a letter to your church about its problems and its spiritual health. What do you think God’s letter will say to your church?`


