---
title:  God’S Message To The Church In Ephesus
date:   10/01/2019
---

_Church members in Ephesus started to make correct teachings and right behavior more important than their love for Jesus. Then their love for God and for each other started to grow weak and cold._

Ephesus was the largest city in the part of Asia controlled by Rome. Ephesus was the most important shipping port in Asia. So, that made Ephesus an important place for business and religion. Many temples, theaters, gyms, and bathhouses filled Ephesus. Many people in Ephesus used magic. Many people knew about the sex sins and superstition that hap- pened in Ephesus. So, you may be surprised to learn that the most powerful Christian church in all of Asia was in Ephesus.

`In Revelation 2:1–4, Jesus describes Himself to the church in Ephesus. What picture of Himself does Jesus give the church? Jesus praises the church for some good things. What are they? What is the one thing that Jesus does not like about the church in Ephesus? (Read Jeremiah 2:2 for a hint.)`

When the church in Ephesus first started, the whole Christian church heard about how the Ephesian church members were very loving to each other and loyal to God (Ephesians 1:15).The Ephesian church experienced trouble from people both outside and inside the church. But the members of the Ephesian church stayed loyal to their faith. They worked hard. They obeyed Bible truth. They did not allow any false leaders or teachers in their church. But then something happened. Church members in Ephesus started to make correct teachings and right behavior more important than their love for Jesus.Then their love for God and for each other started to grow weak and cold.

`In Revelation 2:5–7, Jesus asks the church to do three things to bring back their love for Him and each other. What three things does Jesus ask them to do? How are these three things connected?`

The things that happened in the church in Ephesus show us what happened to the Christian religion in the first cen- tury a.d., from years 31 to 100. When the Christian church first started, it was loving and loyal to the Good News. But by the end of year 100, the church started to lose its love for the Good News and for each other. Then it stopped following the plain truth found in the Good News.

`How can Jesus’ advice to Ephesus help churches today that are cold and have lost their first love for the truth?`