---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   11/01/2019
---

_“When the night is dark­ est, that is when the stars shine the brightest. In the same way, we can see the brightest beams of God’s glory in the darkest gloom.”—Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, April 5, 1900, adapted._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “Patmos,” pages 568–577, in The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers].

“God used John’s dark time on Patmos to show us His loving-favor. Jesus came to John on Patmos. Jesus’ glory made the island very bright and beautiful. In the past, John saw Jesus in human form. John saw the healed marks from the nails that used to be in Jesus’ hands and in His feet. These healed marks bring praise and honor to Jesus. Now John was allowed to look again at his Lord, who woke up from the dead. Jesus was covered in shining glory. He wore this glory the same as clothing. John saw as much of Jesus’ glory as a human can see and not die from looking at all that holy light. “Jesus showed Himself to John. What John saw is proof to all believers that we have a Savior who woke up from the dead. This proof should give the power of life to the church. At times, dark clouds are all around God’s people. It seems as if the heavy weights and attacks on their lives will destroy them. But in these awful times, God teaches the church very important lessons. In these times, Jesus often enters prisons and shows Himself to the people He chose to serve Him. Jesus is in the fire with His people who are burned to death for their faith. When the night is darkest, that is when the stars shine the brightest. In the same way, we can see the brightest beams of God’s glory in the darkest gloom.”—Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, April 5, 1900, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. John wrote the book of Revelation. John shared in his book what he saw and heard in God’s vision to him on Patmos. As you read Revelation 1:12–20, what do you learn and experience? How do John’s words comfort you?`

`2. In Revelation 14:7, the 1st Angel tells the people on the earth to worship the One who made the heavens and the earth. These words come from Exodus 20:11. What does the 1st Angel’s Message tell us about the Sabbath and how important it is in the end time, as shown in the book of Revelation?`

`3. Some Christians who have been members in the church for a long time are in special danger. They fight hard to keep the “fire” of their faith hot and not let it grow cold. How can we keep the “fire” of our faith hot? How can we cause it to burn more brightly?`