---
title:  The Righteous Will Live by Faith
date:  06/03/2022
---

`Read Hebrews 10:35–39. What is God saying to us in these verses?`

Endurance is a characteristic of God’s end-time people, without which they will not be able to receive the promises (Rev. 13:10, Rev. 14:12). In order to endure, however, believers need to “hold fast” their faith (Heb. 10:23, Heb. 4:14). Paul has shown that the desert generation was not able to receive the promise because they lacked faith (Heb. 3:19). Hebrews portrays believers as also at the threshold of the fulfillment of the promises (Heb. 9:28; Heb. 10:25, 36–38) and as needing to exercise faith if they want to receive the promises (Heb. 10:39).

Paul introduces his exposition on faith with a quotation from Habakkuk 2:2–4. Habakkuk had asked God why He tolerated the treacherous people who oppressed the righteous (Hab. 1:12–17). The prophet and his people were suffering; thus, they wanted God to act. God answered, however, that there was an appointed time for the fulfillment of His promise, and they needed to wait (Hab. 2:2–4). Habakkuk and his people lived, like us, between the time of the promise and the time of its fulfillment. God’s message continued in Hebrews, “ ‘He who is coming will come and will not delay’ ” (Heb. 10:37, NIV; see also Hab. 2:3).

The message refers to Jesus. He is the righteous one, the embodiment of faith, who pleases God and provides life (Heb. 10:5–10).

Why, then, would He “delay”? He won’t. He already has come to die for us (Heb. 9:15–26), and He will surely come again at the appointed time (Heb. 9:27, 28; Heb. 10:25).

God’s message continued: “ ‘My righteous one shall live by faith’ ” (Heb. 10:38, ESV). Paul states the same in Romans 1:17 and Galatians 3:11. Romans 1:16, 17 is especially enlightening because it explains that the righteousness of God is “revealed from faith to faith.” What Paul means is that God’s faithfulness to His promises comes first, and His faithfulness produces, as its result, our faith and/or faithfulness.

Thus, because God remains faithful to His promises (2 Tim. 2:13), the righteous, in response to God’s faithfulness, will remain faithful, as well.

`Why is it important to recognize that our faith results from and feeds on God’s faithfulness? How can we learn more to trust in His faithfulness to us and to the promises He has made to us?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[The] Christian life is more than many take it to be. It does not consist wholly in gentleness, patience, meekness, and kindliness. These graces are essential; but there is need also of courage, force, energy, and perseverance. The path that Christ marks out is a narrow, self-denying path. To enter that path and press on through difficulties and discouragements requires men who are more than weaklings.<br/>
Men of stamina are wanted, men who will not wait to have their way smoothed and every obstacle removed, men who will inspire with fresh zeal the flagging efforts of dispirited workers, men whose hearts are warm with Christian love and whose hands are strong to do their Master’s work.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 497.

“Although I have been twice disappointed,” wrote [William Miller], “I am not yet cast down or discouraged. . . . My hope in the coming of Christ is as strong as ever. I have done only what, after years of solemn consideration, I felt it my solemn duty to do.” . . . “One thing I do know, I have preached nothing but what I believed; and God has been with me; His power has been manifested in the work, and much good has been effected.” . . .<br/>
God did not forsake His people; His Spirit still abode with those who did not rashly deny the light which they had received, and denounce the advent movement. In the Epistle to the Hebrews are words of encouragement and warning for the tried, waiting ones at this crisis: “Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise. For yet a little while, and He that shall come will come, and will not tarry.” Hebrews 10:35-37.—_The Great Controversy_, p. 407.

[God] has given to every man his work, and He calls upon all to begin to work just where they are. He cannot do what He desires to do until the human agent acts his part.<br/>
At times the arm of faith seems too short even to touch the Saviour’s garment, but there stands the promise, with God behind it: “Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am.” (Isaiah 58:9). . . .<br/>
It is not our efforts that bring victory. It is seeing God behind the promise, and believing and trusting Him. Grasp by faith the hand of infinite power. The Lord is faithful who hath promised.<br/>
Questions will arise that cannot be settled by any amount of thinking. Do not spend time trying to settle them. Take up the work waiting to be done, trusting in God as your wisdom. His righteousness will go before you, and the questions that have troubled you will answer themselves.—_The Upward Look_, p. 133.