---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/03/2022
---

“By faith you became Christ’s, and by faith you are to grow up in Him—by giving and taking. You are to give all,—your heart, your will, your service,—give yourself to Him to obey all His requirements; and you must take all,—Christ, the fullness of all blessing, to abide in your heart, to be your strength, your righteousness, your everlasting helper,—to give you power to obey.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 70.

“God never asks us to believe, without giving sufficient evidence upon which to base our faith. His existence, His character, the truthfulness of His word, are all established by testimony that appeals to our reason; and this testimony is abundant. Yet God has never removed the possibility of doubt. Our faith must rest upon evidence, not demonstration. Those who wish to doubt will have opportunity; while those who really desire to know the truth will find plenty of evidence on which to rest their faith.

“It is impossible for finite minds fully to comprehend the character or the works of the Infinite One. To the keenest intellect, the most highly educated mind, that holy Being must ever remain clothed in mystery. ‘Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?’ Job 11:7, 8.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 105.

**Discussion Questions**:

`An early Christian scholar once wrote: “Credo ut intelligam,” Latin for “I believe in order that I may understand.” Hebrews 11:3 says that “by faith we understand” (NKJV). What is the relationship between faith and understanding? Why does faith often come before understanding? That is, why must we sometimes reach out in faith in what, at least at first, we don’t understand, and then afterward more understanding will come?`

`The Greek word pistis means both “faith” and “faithfulness.” Why are both meanings important in seeking to understand what living “by faith” means? How did the people in Hebrews 11 show, by their faithfulness, the reality of their faith? How can we do the same?`

`Though we understand that faith is a gift of God (Rom. 12:3), what role do we play, if any, in receiving and maintaining that gift?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Upward Look_, “The Great Exemplar,” p. 134;<br/>
_My Life Today_, “O God! Help Me to Higher Levels,” p. 105.<br/>