---
title:  Faithful Vessels
date:   20/08/2017
---

**Logos**: 2 Kings 4; Acts 26:28, 29; 2 Cor. 5:17; Gal. 4:12–20; 5:14

**To Be Free** (Gal. 4:19)

Paul’s letter to the churches of Galatia reproaches his fellow believers for forgetting God’s gospel and calls them to an obedience of truth and love rather than of Mosaic law. For the Pharisees, removing certain interpretations of Mosaic law and additional human-made, legal burdens from the position of prime authority over one’s life was often difficult to negotiate. As a result, many of these said individuals found themselves focused on salvation by works—or even worse, reverting back to their pagan lifestyles. Therefore, Paul labels himself a father of these disobedient Galatians, similar to God tending His disobedient children of Israel. As a mother enduring birthing pains, Paul urgently chastises his brothers, “until Christ be formed in [them]” (Gal 4:19).

**To pursue righteousness by law means Jesus died in vain.**

Paul’s remedy for their demise is to have faith. Because Abraham believed, in him all nations were blessed and the sons of the freewoman Sarah’s son, Isaac, are of the covenant of the promise. Those born of the bondwoman’s son Ishmael are slaves to the law—of the covenant made with Moses at Mount Sinai (note the parallelism here). Yes, Mosaic law was provided from God, but it shouldn’t be followed without faith. The key is to have faith, and when one upholds that faith, one will be filled with the Spirit who will then guide one to follow the law out of love, not out of fear for salvation. Faith moves mountains.

After all, the Gentiles, says Paul, received spiritual circumcision, so to speak, by the Spirit and weren’t required to receive it physically, despite the law. Gentiles can be grafted into Christ as easily as a branch can snap off. So the question is, are we ready to be grafted, or are we on the brink of crashing down?

**Interpersonal Relations** (Gal. 4:12–16)

While the bulk of Paul’s letter to the Galatians focuses on faith versus works, Paul also subtly focuses on his own concern for the relationship he has with them. “You know that because of physical infirmity I preached the gospel to you at the first. And my trial which was in my flesh you did not despise or reject, but you received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus” (verses 13, 14, NKJV). Earlier in chapter 1, Paul proclaims he preaches to please Christ, not man, and receives his ability to preach via Christ’s revelation upon him. Therefore, it’s important they not only hear but heed his message. They trusted him, even though he was ill. They received him wholeheartedly.

Now, because he’s in doubt of their faith in Christ, he rebukes them, but this seems to make them angry—perhaps embarrassed (verse 16). It’s not always fun to be wrong or give up things we covet, but the truth is what sets a soul free. It’s often through failure that we learn how to find a better path.

**God Is Love** (2 Kings 4; Acts 26:28, 29; 2 Cor. 5:17; Gal 5:14)

When we have faith, we throw off our old selves and put on Christ. “Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new” (2 Cor. 5:17, NKJV). In this new self, we are made righteous by our relationship with Christ, by our glorification of He who extended grace to us so we could be redeemed. But to pursue righteousness by law means Jesus died in vain. Therefore, brothers and sisters, let us remember in Christ we are one, and we all receive the same challenge: to spread that glorious Oil. “Then Agrippa said to Paul, ‘You almost persuade me to become a Christian.’ And Paul said, ‘I would to God that not only you, but also all who hear me today, might become both almost and altogether such as I am, except for these chains’ ” (Acts 26:28, 29, NKJV). Intense, right?

The law was intended to bring us to Christ until Christ could come to us. Now, we are called to have faith in that which we don’t see and to be filled with the Spirit. Only then can we be righteous by faith and be made stronger to endure the trials set before us. However, we are called to follow one aspect of the law at all times: “For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself” (Gal. 5:14). We are called to be filled with the Spirit and then to pour forth the Spirit via the gospel into all the empty vessels until we run out of vessels to fill (2 Kings 4). And who knows, we might be the vessels who need the filling.

**React**

`1. In what way(s) am I currently bound to the law, and what can I do in my daily routine to set myself free?`

`2. What phase matches me best: (a) filled with Oil, (b) filling vessels, (c) being filled, or (d) empty? Why?`

_Stefani Danielle Leeper, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_