---
title:  Love, Rebuke, and Doctrine
date:   21/08/2017
---

**Testimony**: Gal. 4:12

“To hate and reprove sin, and at the same time to manifest pity and tenderness for the sinner, is a difficult attainment. The more earnest our own efforts to attain to holiness of heart and life, the more acute will be our perception of sin, and the more decided our disapproval of any deviation from right.We must guard against undue severity toward the wrong-doer.But while we should seek to encourage him in every effort to correct his errors, we must be careful not to lose sight of the exceeding sinfulness of sin. While there is need of Christlike patience and love toward the erring, there is constant danger of manifesting so great toleration for his error that he will consider himself undeserving of reproof, and will reject it as uncalled-for and unjust.”1

**“Let the heart be won, the soil prepared, and then sow the seed, presenting in love the truth as it is in Jesus.”**

“Dwell on the necessity of practical godliness. Give them evidence that you are a Christian, desiring peace, and that you love their souls.Let them see that you are conscientious. Thus you will gain their confidence; and there will be time enough for doctrines. Let the heart be won, the soil prepared, and then sow the seed, presenting in love the truth as it is in Jesus.”2

“Paul planted the pure truths of the gospel in Galatia. He preached the doctrine of righteousness by faith, and his work was rewarded in seeing the Galatian church converted to the gospel. . . .

“For a time Paul lost his hold on the minds of those who had been deceived; but relying on the word and power of God, and refusing the interpretations of the apostate teachers, he was able to lead the converts to see that they hadbeen deceived,andthus defeat the purposesofSatan.Thenewconverts came back to the faith, prepared to take their position intelligently for the truth.”3

**React**

`1. In today’s culture of “let me be me,” is correcting beliefs and admonishing sin still relevant to today’s Christians?`

`2. It’s one thing to say that we must rebuke lovingly, but how would we react if we were confronted by a loving rebuke? How does this self-reflection help us approach others when we must be the ones to then give the loving rebuke?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, p. 321.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers (1915), p. 120.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 358.</sup>

_Eliezer Roque Cisneros, Olathe, Colorado, USA_