---
title:  Paul’s Call to Remembrance
date:   22/08/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gal. 4:12–20

When reading the letter of Galatians, it can be difficult to image how Paul’s audience once had a zest and thirst for God. It seems Paul kept reiterating the same message, despite having previously visited this church! But, these early Christians were not immune to disobedience. They fell prey to the lies told by other missionaries about law observance as a means of salvation.

**Legalism restricted Christ’s character from developing and . . . grace was key to growth.**

Thus because they became so attached to the law, Paul had to continually reiterate the truth that salvation by grace had nothing to do with law-keeping. His powerful pastoral appeal in Galatians 4:12–20 was essentially a call to remembrance, the use of strong doctrine and historical evidence to persuade the Galatians back to times of strength and obedience where they knew salvation was through Christ alone.

Specifically, in Galatians 4:12 Paul wrote: “Brethren, I urge you to become like me, for I became like you.You have not injured me at all” (NKJV).The word become in Greek (ginomai) meant to come into being or of being born. Paul also said he once was like they were, e-dike-sate, or acting wickedly, as it is translated from Greek.

Paul spoke with such passion because he knew what it was like to have a legalistic mind-set, pushing Christ farther away while only exalting yourself higher. With this background, Paul’s message became stronger: we all have a chance, no matter how far we’ve fallen, to come back and “become” again.

In this letter, however, Paul had a stronger challenge—their pride. Paul’s words are a perfect example of how when we feel we have little means to preach the gospel or little receptivity, this is when we must preach it the most and depend on God’s provisions.

Paul didn’t give up. He knew the Galatians would be mad. He was telling the truth even when it hurt (verse 16). But he knew how legalism restricted Christ’s character from developing and that grace was key to growth (verses 17–19). REACT

`1. What challenges have you experienced when trying to share with others about Christ? If none, what have you done or are doing to avoid challenges?`

`2. If the law is not a means to salvation, what is the purpose of the law? How can we still value the law without letting ourselves become legalistic like the Galatians?`

_Emily “Emy” Wood, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_