---
title:  'Becoming the Change: Rules for a Reason'
date:   23/08/2017
---

**How-to**: 2 Cor. 5:20; 10:2–6; Gal. 4:15–18

Imagine a child constantly switching between two babysitters. There’s theperson wholistensto the parent’srulesandenforcesthem.Thenthere’s the person who lets the child do whatever the child wants—as long as the parents do not find out.

The younger child may think the latter babysitter cares about them more because of the freedom. However, parents make rules for a reason. They were not made for punishment. They were made for protection out of love. The first babysitter understands this and protects the child, hopefully out of that same love.

**We must allow God to work through us, or no work for Him will be done.**

We see Paul show the Galatians this same duty—to show the love of God. We are called to be like Paul and show others biblical truths. Even though they may appear to be harsh, we must make sure the receiver knows they’re being delivered with love, by love, and because of love. Second Corinthians 5:20 reminds us that we are the ambassadors for Christ and that we plead on His behalf. When we plead with people about a problem, it should not be for our benefit but theirs and, most of all, God’s.

We must allow God to work through us, or no work for Him will be done. How can we help people if we do not love them? If God is pushing you to go talk to someone about something that person might be doing wrong, then talk to them like Jesus would. Approach them with love and kindness and be there with them through the struggle of sin.

It won’t always work, and some people will not be ready, but your job is to give them the opportunity. Galatians 4:15, 16 shows us Paul addressing how the Galatians might have done anything for him in the past, but now they treat him like a stranger because he’s trying to correct their errors. Just because you approach someone with the love of Jesus does not mean they will be ready for it. Be like Jesus. Give them time, and give them love.

**React**

`1. Why do you think being honest with biblical truths and godly love can go hand in hand?`

`2. What are some ways you can help correct errors while showing the love behind the corrections?`

_Marveen Gentillon, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_