---
title:  “Oh, oobee doo, I wanna be like you”
date:   24/08/2017
---

**Opinion**: Acts 26:28, 29; 1 Cor. 11:1; Phil. 3:17; Gal. 4:12; 2 Thess. 3:7–9

In the 1967 film The Jungle Book, there is a scene where the man cub (Mowgli) is in the ruins of India, swinging and jiving along with a jazzy song put on by King Louie (an orangutan) and his monkey minions. In the song, we see King Louie asking Mowgli for the secret to “man’s red flower” (fire) so that he and his monkeys can become human. In his song, “I Wanna Be Like You,” King Louie sings and scats:

“Oh, oobee doo / I wanna be like you / I wanna walk like you / Talk like you, too / You’ll see it’s true / An ape like me / Can learn to be human too.”*

**Christ’s life is the prime example of how to live life according to the will of the Lord.**

In hopes of being human like the man cub, he tells Mowgli that he can learn to be a man by following the young jungle boy’s example.

In 1 Corinthians 11:1, Paul writes: “Follow my example, as I follow the example of Christ” (NIV). The second clause is the main focus of the statement. Paul is asking the Corinthians to give up their worldly desires (following his example) because he is following the example set by Christ.

Christ’s life is the prime example of how to live life according to the will of the Lord. In dealing with people, He portrayed genuine care and love for them. In moments of solitude, He was on His knees praying to the Father. In moments where faith was needed, He continued to trust in the Lord.

If we wish to be men and women of God, then we don’t have to look any further. Christ’s life on Earth provides us with what is necessary to achieve this. In emulating and imitating what Christ has done throughout the four Gospels, we will be successful in “the becoming.”

**React**

`1. What are some of the things you would like to copy from Christ’s life?`

`2. Is emulating the way to go to become men and women of God?`

`3. If not Christ, what are other examples we are following for the better and for the worse?`

<sup>* “I Wanna Be Like You,” Stlyrics.com, accessed May 23, 2016, http://www.stlyrics.com/lyrics/classicdisney/iwannabelikeyou.htm.</sup>

_Colin King, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_