---
title:  'Imitating Jesus: An Encouraging Ministry'
date:   25/08/2017
---

**Exploration**: 1 Cor. 11:1; Gal. 4:12–20

**Conclude**

Paul’s concern for the Galatians’ welfare ran so deep that his tone became less theological and more nurturing. The theology was still present, but he encouraged them more. By changing his approach and sounding more like a pastor and less like a salesman, Paul actually gave the Galatians, and us for that matter, a chance to understand God in a more tangible way. For example, when he begged them to imitate him in the same way he imitated Christ (Gal 4:12; 1 Cor. 11:1), he proved God’s love for them was even stronger than his own and that God would stop at nothing to reach His people.

**Consider**

- Writing a poem about the difference encouragement has made in your life.
- Performing a skit based on Paul’s experience in Galatians 4:12– 20 with your friends at vespers or church to show others the power of a gentle ministry.
- Observing your pets, particularly dogs, cats, and horses, because these animals have a God-given ability to know when people need some encouraging comfort. You should learn from their kind of love and try to imitate it for someone else.
- Calling or visiting someone you haven’t seen at church in a while to see how they are doing and ask if you can encourage them in some way.
- Painting an encouraging phrase on your bedroom wall or drawing it on a piece of cardstock and hanging it in your room as a reminder that you should always imitate Jesus in whatever you do or say.

**Connect**

- Ephesians 4; 1 Peter 4; Hebrews 10:19–25.
- Ellen G. White, To Be Like Jesus.
- R. T. Kendall, Imitating Christ: Becoming More Like Jesus (Charisma House, 2007). Dr. David Jeremiah, The Joy of Encouragement (Multnomah, 2006).

_Mindi Vetter, Newman Lake, Washington, USA_