---
title:  God’s Call to Unity
date:  25/11/2018
---

**Logos**: Luke 22:24; John 17:20–23; Acts 2:46; Rom. 14:1–6; Phil. 2:1–3; Eph. 1:7–10; 2 Cor. 5:17–21

**Unity in God’s Example (John 17:20–23)**

Did you know that Jesus prayed for our church? His most passionate prayer for us was that we would achieve unity: “That they may be one just as We are one: I in them, and You in Me; that they may be made perfect in one” (John 17:22, 23, NKJV).

God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are all in perfect harmony, though they are very different in their roles and personalities. Christians are called to reflect God’s character to the world, and that means following His example of unity. We are, in a way, a mirror that shines God’s light upon a dark world.

Just as the perfect, Triune Godhead has complete unity and respect for the uniqueness of each Person, so we must also find harmony and respect among one another.

**Unity in Jesus’ Sacrifice (Acts 2:46; Eph. 1:7–10; 2 Cor. 5:17–21)**

Jesus had to die to reconcile us to God. As sinners, we were separated and cut off from perfect fellowship with our Father. In God’s ultimate rescue mission to the world, Jesus’ death brings us back into fellowship.

Just like Jesus had one mission: to bring us back to God, our mission is the same: to bring others into the same relationship. The New Testament church in the book of Acts continued together with “one accord” (Acts 2:46)— or one gospel mission. The calling is the same for our church today.

Ultimately, God wants to “gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth—in Him” (Eph. 1:10, NKJV). Just as God reconciled us to Himself, we also need to reconcile ourselves to one another in love.

**Unity in Diversity (Rom. 14:1–6; Phil. 2:1–3)**

Unity doesn’t mean we have to agree on everything. Of course, blatant doctrinal fallacies must be addressed in love, but we shouldn’t be contentious over trivial matters. In other words, we shouldn’t make mountains out of molehills. The Bible tells us, “Receive one who is weak in the faith, but not to disputes over doubtful things” (Rom. 14:1, NKJV).

Before you correct someone, examine your motives and the weight of the matter. Are you engaging in a debate to exalt yourself or to be right at the expense of a brother or sister? Will the exchange strengthen or weaken their relationship with God? We must examine our motivations before engaging in disputes because there is always a cost. Sometimes it’s worth it, as when we lovingly help lift up a brother or sister struggling in sin. Other times, it does nothing but bring contention with no positive outcome.

Paul said, “Fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself” (Phil. 2:2, 3, NKJV). This doesn’t mean we think the same way; it means that we have the same love and the same purpose—to exalt Jesus and bring others into unity with Him.

**Unity Is Our Witness (John 17:20–23; Luke 22:24)**

When Jesus prayed for future believers and desired their unity, He also had the Great Commission in mind. If you look around the world today, you see fighting and broken relationships. Satan is doing everything he can to bring about dissension. Divorce rates are high, and conflict exists between children and parents, as the family unit is broken. On a broader scale, wars and rumors of wars abound, furthering Satan’s goal of complete division.

Sadly, this is also creeping into the church, where congregations break apart due to infighting. It even happened among Jesus’ own disciples when they fought over who would be the greatest (Luke 22:24). If Satan can keep us fighting among ourselves, we lose our focus on God’s heart for the world. After all, how can we bring new believers into a church whose members are at war with each other?

Jesus prayed, “ ‘And the glory which You gave Me I have given them, that they may be one just as We are one: I in them, and You in Me; that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that You have sent Me, and have loved them as You have loved Me’ ” (John 17:22, 23, NKJV).

Why do you suppose Jesus prayed for our unity? He knew that this would be our greatest challenge. We achieve this high calling only through dependence upon Jesus, our understanding of true humility, and our replacement of self with Savior. When we do this, the world will take notice of our witness and will know that Jesus is the only way to God’s love.

Beloved believers, if we are to reach everyone with the gospel of Jesus Christ, we must learn to love one another in complete unity, with the single, like-minded purpose of bringing others into the family of God.

**React**

`1. What are some of the issues that are causing division among believers today? When conflict does arise, how can we keep the spirit of Christ in our interactions?`

`2. If Jesus was willing to die to bring unity between God and humanity, shouldn’t we place it at the highest priority in the church? Are we doing that?`

`3. How can we walk in better unity with one another in order to reach a lost world with the gospel of Christ?`

---

_Sarah Hansen, Springdale, Arkansas, USA_