---
title:  Strength in Unity
date:  26/11/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 4:32

They say a chain is as strong as its weakest link, and apparently Satan knows this all too well. “Satan works to make the prayer of Christ of none effect. He makes a continual effort to create bitterness and discord; for he knows that where there is unity, there is strength,—a oneness which all the powers of hell cannot break.”1

“The Lord has called us to unity in the bonds of Christian fellowship and love. ‘A new commandment I give unto you,’ said Christ, ‘That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.’ ‘If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in my love. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and abide in his love.”2

“The Lord desires His workers to counsel together, not to move independently. Those who are set as ministers and guides to the people should pray much when they meet together. This will give wonderful help and courage, binding heart to heart and soul to soul, leading every man to unity and peace and strength in his endeavors.”3

“While it is true that the Lord guides individuals, it is also true that He is leading out a people, not a few separate individuals here and there, one believing this thing, another that.”4 United we stand; divided we fall.

**React**

`1. What are some of the issues on which the church is divided? How can we improve or create a sense of unity in the church?`

`2. In 1 Corinthians 12 the body of Christ is compared to the human body. How does this illustration exemplify how the church should function in unity?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “Christian Unity,” Review and Herald, April 27, 1897.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Testimonies to the Church Regarding Individual Responsibility and Christian Unity, p. 15.</sup>

<sup>4. Ibid., p. 18.</sup>

_Terri-Ann Graham, Quebec, Canada_