---
title: Rats in the Cellar 
date:  27/11/2018
---

**Evidence**: Col. 3:1–17

The church should be united in worship, ministry, and purpose, but unity starts with individuals. We must first be made alive in Christ (Col. 3:1–4). More than just trying to live like “good Christians,” we need an authentic change of heart. C. S. Lewis shares this illustration: “When I come to my evening prayers and try to reckon up the sins of the day, I have sulked or snapped or sneered or snubbed or stormed. And the excuse that immediately springs to my mind is that the provocation was so sudden and unexpected. [But] surely what a man does when he is taken off his guard is the best evidence for what sort of a man he is? . . . If there are rats in a cellar you are most likely to see them if you go in very suddenly. But the suddenness does not create the rats: it only prevents them from hiding. . . . After the first few steps in the Christian life we realise that everything which really needs to be done in our souls can be done only by God.”1 Daily surrender to Christ is the prerequisite to a corporate unity that expresses God’s salvation to the world. The rats in the cellars of our souls have to go.

Outward change follows inward change, so it is no wonder that Paul wrote, “Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts” (verse 15, NIV). The Jewish understanding of “the heart” was similar to what we understand “the mind” to be: the part of you that controls your will and choices. As Christ changes our hearts, we begin aligning more closely with the character of God.

**React**

`1. How do the specific sins listed in Colossians 3:5–9 contrast with the principles of Christian relationships in verses 12 and 13?`

`2. Is it possible to have corporate unity without individual change? Is eradicating un-Christian behaviors enough?`

`3. How does knowing that “the heart” relates to an individual or entity’s will (and not just emotions) change your understanding of verse 15?`

---

<sup>1. C. S. Lewis, Mere Christianity: A Revised and Enlarged Edition, With a New Introduction, of the Three Books, the Case for Christianity, Christian Behavior, and Beyond Personality (New York: Walker & Co., 1999), bk. 4, Beyond Personality: Or First Steps in the Doctrine of the Trinity, chap. 7, “Let’s Pretend.”</sup>

_Amanda Ernst, Hickory, North Carolina, USA_