---
title:  Gospel Community
date:  28/11/2018
---

**How-to**: Heb. 10:24, 25

Hebrews teaches us what it means to live in authentic gospel community and why it’s so important to surround ourselves with people who encourage us and lift us up. The idea of unity and accountability is hard to grasp in our individualistic society. By default, we tend to focus more on ourselves and our own personal story, and because of this, we miss out on the richness of deeprooted relationships. The Christian life should be active, not passive.

The book of Ecclesiastes says, “Woe to anyone who is alone when he falls and no one is there to help him get up” (Eccles. 4:10, ISV). Jesus was our greatest paradigm of gospel community, and we see this in His relationship with the apostles—the men who walked daily with Jesus, shared meals together, prayed together, celebrated together, and relied on one another. Jesus challenged His brothers to live according to God’s truth.

Another powerful illustration of unity is the Trinity. Think about it: the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are individual, yet they are fully one. God is in community with Himself. How amazing is that?

We see a theme throughout the New Testament: to love one another. It also makes another strong point: we aren’t to try to live the Christian life on our own. We are instructed to meet together on a regular basis to pray together, encourage one another, and live life together. Not meeting together quickly becomes a habit—a bad habit—and habits are hard to change.

We need the encouragement of other believers if we are to keep going forward and to avoid being pulled off track. Encouraging one another is connected to the importance of living in community with other believers. We can’t encourage one another unless we are regularly together. When we are invested in mutual encouragement and standing with one another, we are also learning to function well as Christ’s body, whatever may happen—even as “the day” draws near, the return of Christ.

Being vulnerable and transparent with other believers can be messy and uncomfortable, but what a gift it is to have someone celebrate when you celebrate and cry when you cry. Community is our lifeline, and we simply cannot miss out on this because of fear or discomfort. Let’s encourage one another on toward the love of Christ.

**React**

`What steps could you take today to start living in community with the people God has placed in your life?`

---

_Brittany Winkfield, Denver, Colorado, USA_