---
title:  The Social Hack to Move From Togetherness to Unity
date:  29/11/2018
---

**Opinion**: Heb. 10:19–25

Uzoma (Oo-zoe-ma) said with a sense of desperation, “Oh, my stomach, I’m starving! I can’t wait to eat Thanksgiving dinner. Lord help me! This year’s annual Turkey Trot Race was a blast, but food, family, and friends will be even better.” Uzoma, like many other young adults, is an active college student who went home for the American Thanksgiving break to be with friends and family for the holidays.

Though many people rave about the delicious food they will be consuming and their yearly fight against seasonal overeating, most when surveyed would say that their main attraction to the holidays is the togetherness they experience. Though Uzoma had the choice to use his phone camera with his family and stay at college preparing for finals, he chose to go home for the sake of togetherness.

Though the Bible is peppered with lessons of togetherness and unity, it’s a lesson many Christians are slow to learn and quick to forget. The beauty and power of unity and togetherness is that it is accomplished theologically by the gospel and practically by allowing the gospel to use us in stepping out of our comfort zones.

So how does the Christian experience togetherness and unity in a world that is seemingly already connected through social media?

Togetherness is often experienced during church, school, and events we have to attend. Though we need togetherness to create unity, unity does not come as a result of togetherness. For the Christians who seek to be part of the body of Christ and desire unity, here are two suggestions:

Comfortably uncomfortable. If the gospel is truly for everyone, God will use you to bring worldly people into the church. However, what does this mean? Though we are to be uncomfortable with ways of the world, we should be comfortable around worldly people (cf. 1 John 2:15–17).

Social mixer. After interacting with people who don’t look or talk like you, introduce them to your Christian friends. The key to a Christian togetherness that leads to unity is to first gain trust by being loyal to the friendship and then, second, to deepen the togetherness by introducing them to your Christian friends with similar interests.

With these two simple methods, the hack from togetherness to Christian unity becomes a reality.

---

_Kelechuku “KC” Anyalebechi, Mountain View, California, USA_