---
title:  Love Unites Us
date:  30/11/2018
---

**Exploration**: John 13:34, 35

**Conclude**

Unity within the Christian church proves the power of God. Love nurtures and sustains the growth of Christian unity. Jesus reminded the disciples that people would know that they were His followers if they loved one another (John 13:35). The Holy Spirit ignites and sustains the love Christians must have in order to reveal Christ’s gift of salvation and the hope of eternal life with Him. Others will join our movement, not because they like our doctrines but because they desire the sweet peace, the living hope, and ultimately the powerful love of Jesus that is manifested through our unity.

**Consider**

- Illustrating the concepts of love and unity and how they work together by using mixed media art.
- Writing a play or skit that illustrates the importance of unity in the church.
- Praying for unity in your church, humbling yourself, and asking God to make your attitude and contributions a catalyst for unity and not a stumbling block.
- Observing natural habitats to understand the unity found in God’s creation.
- Discussing the inhibitors that destroy unity and how to prevent each one.
- Planning activities to build unity in your church—small group Bible studies in homes, outreach projects, social gatherings, celebrations with food and games, and group excursions.


**Connect**

1 Corinthians 1:10; Ephesians 4:11–13; Colossians 3:13, 14; Psalm 133:1. Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, p. 15; Evangelism, “Unity in Diversity,” pp. 98–103.

Carl P. Cosaert, Galatians: A Fiery Response to a Struggling Church, chapter 13.

Ganoune Diop, “What Does God Say About Unity?” Adventist Review, October 8, 2015, http://www.adventistreview.org/church-news/story3332-what-does-god-say-about-unity.

---

_Debbie Battin Sasser, Friendswood, Texas, USA_