---
title: 'Restoring Harmony'
date: 31/12/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Hebrews 1:1–4**

**Restoring Harmony**

Anyone who ever took the initiative to tidy up his/her wardrobe knows that the process may generate even more disorder. You may choose to remove everything before starting to reorganize it from scratch. Someone else upon seeing it defines the scene as chaotic. Simply defined, chaos is the absence of order. But then, what is order? In Genesis 1 we understand that order assumes an arrangement according to preestablished criterion, patterns, or rules, so that the outcome is harmonious and even advantageous—a clean wardrobe.

Related to order is the concept of differentiation. If you want to organize wardrobes, criteria need to be established. You classify things according to criteria, perhaps by kind, color, size, or shape. By doing this efficiently, some are even able to find their black socks in the dark without waking up their spouse with the lights.

However, after sin, organized things do not stay arranged. The principle of entropy (the second law of thermodynamics) states all things naturally move from the original organized condition to disorganization, generating decay and death. This affects the visible and invisible, in natural as well as social systems. Sicknesses, environmental deterioration, and eroded family relations are some examples of the results. Unless external energy is introduced, everything suffers chaos that will eventually lead to destruction.

The book of Hebrews says not only that the Son was the Heir of all things and Creator of worlds (and systems), but also that He upheld “all things by the word of His power” (Heb. 1:2, 3). This week we will explore the first chapters of Genesis to analyze how God brought order out of formlessness, and what principles He used to uphold these systems. The role of God’s Word will be explored not only in the creative process, but also in upholding what He created—from our bodies to our marriages, and even our finances. Those who pay attention to His Word and reverently apply it to their lives will see the reversal of entropy’s consequences! There is hope!

#### inScribe

Write out Hebrews 1:1–4 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `