---
title: The First Gift
date: 01/01/2023
---

#### inGest

Genesis 1 describes God’s first gift to humanity—an environment prepared for sustainable life. Initially it is described as dark, “without form, and void” (v. 1), indicating an absence of order, organization, or beauty.

God’s first action was to call light into existence: “For He spoke and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast” (Ps. 33:9). But His Word is used for more than creation. As we saw in Hebrews, He also upholds “all things by the word of His power” (Heb. 1:3). Hence, any hope of restoration from a formless state can only be obtained by following “the word of His power.”

What He does next is so instructive! God divides light from darkness (Gen. 1:4), waters below from waters above (v. 6), dry land from water (v. 9), day from night (v. 14), and light from darkness (v. 18). The ability to use His word to differentiate, to select, to establish borders and limits, and to place each thing in the right place indicates the preexistence of criteria established by His own purpose and intentionality. Those who do not like or respect rules, limits, or borders, established by His Word, are increasingly exposed to chaotic, or formless, conditions.

The fact that God created humanity in His own image (v. 26) implies that the human race was provided with similar organizational abilities. Further into the account (Gen. 2:8), He plants a garden where He puts the man and woman, giving them a specific task: to tend and keep it (v. 15). This assumes that before sin, humankind was given the ability to create and to maintain order and a harmonious beauty. As grass cannot decide where it should spread, there must be a mind apart from the grass to guide and to limit its growth. As beautiful flowers do not have intelligence or mobility to group together by kind or colors, someone must decide where to plant them. God left these tasks to our first parents.

This managerial responsibility was attributed to them by the Owner of the garden, providing meaning and purpose for their life. In return, He freely offered everything necessary for their subsistence (Gen. 1:29), provided they would keep His established limits that protected their wellbeing. Any disregard of these limits would alter their relationship status with the Owner.

Although that which is edible is abundant and diverse, the food appropriate for humanity is specifically identified by the Owner (v. 29). A death penalty would be enforced if they ate the item that, although apparently available, was excluded from their diet (Gen. 2:17). Disobedience would cause the reversal of the organizational/creative process, because life cannot be upheld by its Giver when limits for the well-being of His free willed creatures are disregarded.

The forbidden tree would represent God’s established exclusives. For example, no business manager can take home anything s/he wants, unless the owner allows. By crossing this border and using what was restricted by God as a test of allegiance, they broke the sacred relationship of trust. The first couple lost possession of the garden, started to sweat, and worried about nature’s maintenance. Entropy was now doing its job!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Hebrews 1:1–4. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`Why is it unsafe for humanity to rely on its own criteria for differentiation while trying to avoid chaos and to keep harmony (social, relational, physical)?`

`What is one area in your life that order is needed amid chaos?`