---
title: The Gift of God’s Exclusives
date: 02/01/2023
---

#### inTerpret

God created the universe in terms of systems. These systems are units composed of related elements that interact with each other. There are macro systems, such as the solar system, and there are micro systems, such as a cell, which is a subsystem of the body (a system itself). There are also visible systems, such as the body, and less-visible ones, such as the family.

Even though the borders of some systems may be permeable, their integrity is crucial for the protection of their contents. Alterations to the integrity of these borders may produce chaos and catastrophic consequences. Think tsunami, an infection, a theft, or adultery, for example.

In Genesis 1 and 2 God creates and organizes the elements, specifying their limits, borders, divisions, or restrictions. These indicate that the original organization is crucial for the well-functioning of the whole. Light and darkness, waters below and above, water and dry land, day and night, specific creatures for different environments, male and female, what could be used as food and what couldn’t, seasons, weeks, months, and years—these were all established to provide and maintain harmony, beauty, and functionality.

God’s stewards of creation, man and woman, were also limited by a border. They knew that any violation to what was originally organized (or limited) would produce consequences in health, sexuality, relationships, and even finances, reversing the creative process.

In Genesis 3 man and woman for the first time crossed this border, a line established by God at Creation, and terrible consequences resulted. The prohibited fruit was seemingly portrayed as available, accessible, attractive, and as the fruits in other trees. But the limitation was a reminder of God’s ownership. Only owners establish what managers are allowed to touch for personal use or take home.

By touching God’s restricted property, they acted as the owners, placing themselves in God’s exalted position. By becoming untrustworthy managers (stewards), Adam and Eve were no longer allowed to remain in the Garden of Eden. They lost possession of God’s property, engaged in painful labor, and worried about their sustenance. By losing access to the tree of life, their lives could no longer be upheld by the Giver. Decay and death were the result (Rom. 6:23).

God’s exclusives may still seem to be accessible and available for us to use at our discretion; His limits and borders may still appear as permeable. But the aforementioned principle is still in effect after the Fall and obedience to it is crucial in the process of restoration and redemption. Extramarital relationships may seem available for intimacy; borders may seem available (and encouraged) to be crossed; inappropriate drink or food are widely available to be consumed; resting time and Sabbaths are apparently available for regular work or self-focused entertainment; and whole salaries may seemingly be available to be spent at someone’s own discretion. Nevertheless the reversal of the creational/organizational process is triggered every time God’s exclusives are violated and His borders crossed.

God-established limits are His gifts for the good of His subjects. By respecting them, His creatures recognize His sovereignty and ownership, revealing allegiance to Him. On the other hand, by disrespecting them, humanity is introduced to social, physical, spiritual, and environmental disruption, ending up in death. But there is still hope!

`What questions emerge after studying all of Hebrews 1:1–4? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`After having provided everything in the garden, why would God establish a restriction to two perfect beings?`