---
title: The First Offering
date: 04/01/2023
---

#### inVite

Adam and Eve had nothing to worry about inside the Garden of Eden. Their Creator would come and spend time with them, while teaching them His secrets. The weather was stable and comfortable. The couple would enjoy deep intimacy with each other. After all, there was no electricity, and after sunset they would have no other option than to spend a fabulous time together before they got too sleepy.

Everything they would need for maintenance was abundant, widely available, and ready to be consumed, without worry or toil. As God’s representatives, they were given freedom to organize and manage the garden according to their discretion, developing their refined aesthetic criteria to glorify God. This would foster a high sense of self-worth and pleasure.

However, after crossing the forbidden border, Adam and Eve opened a wide gate for the reversal of the creational process and for chaos to be installed. Unworthy to be trusted (disruption of self-esteem) and expelled from God’s visible presence and the garden (disruption of spirituality and environment), surrounded by mutual accusation (disruption of relationship), subjected to death and decay (disruption of life), they were ordered to work and toil for their maintenance (potential disruption of economy). Fear, worry, and shame (disruption of emotions) were the new reality!

It was only after doubting the goodness of God that they despised His sole restriction. They believed they were losing their freedom and sought to secure what they believed to be their rights. So the essence of sin is a desire to put self first.

As distrust always harms relationships, it produced a critical disruption on the first couple’s connection with the Source of life. Distrust brought alienation, decay, and death. No one would blame God for being unfair if He would have left them to the bitter consequences of their choice. After all, how many times were they warned?

As sin would endanger the stability of the systems (of the universe), God couldn’t just pretend that nothing was happening. He would need to deal with it! God realized that if He simply removed Adam and Eve from the scenario, the other beings would henceforth obey Him out of fear. They would not trust that the limits He set were intended for their good, and would generate more distrust and rebellion. Wherever there is fear, there never is love.

So instead of removing Adam and Eve forever, He decided to “remove” Himself from His exalted position. God would become the divine recipient of disruption, pain, suffering, chaos, and death. To all who would trust that His death was sufficient to forgive sins and cleanse from all unrighteousness, He offered Himself as substitute, diverting the natural results of disobedience. This plan was immediately offered to Adam and Eve (Gen. 3:15) and was exemplified by the first (and shocking) animal offering, something implicit in the account of the tunics of skin provided by God to them (v. 21). The first Giver provided the first Offering!

**Meditate on Hebrews 1:1–4 again and look for where Jesus is.**

` `

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`How have you offered Jesus as your first offering?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`