---
title:  Daniel and the Last Days
date:   07/04/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Corinthians 8:1–7; Matthew 13:3–7, 22; Genesis 3:1–6; Isaiah 56:11; Matthew 26:14–16. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘And what about the seed that fell among the thorny weeds? That [seed] is like [the same as] the people who hear the teaching but let worries about this life and love for money stop it from growing. So it does not produce a crop in their lives’ ” (Matthew 13:22, ERV).
 
The Lord had big plans for Israel during Old Testament times. God told Moses to tell Israel: “ ‘You will be my kingdom of priests [religious leaders]. You will be a nation that belongs to me alone’ ” (Exodus 19:6, ICB). God wanted Israel to be His witnesses. God wanted Israel to show everyone the truth that the Lord was the only God there was (read Isaiah 43:10, 12). Sadly, Israel failed to do this holy work. After some time, the Babylonians made the Israelites their slaves and took them away to Babylon. 

But some of God’s people stayed loyal to God. God used them as His witnesses while they were slaves in Babylon. These loyal followers were Daniel and his three friends. As slaves, they would do the work Israel failed to do as a country when it was free. Daniel and his three friends were examples of everything Israel should have been and done. 

Daniel and his friends are examples to us too. We live in the last days. God also chose us to be His witnesses to all the people on the earth. What can we learn from the stories about Daniel and his three friends to help us do the holy work God gave us to do?