---
title:  “ ‘Honest with Little Things’ ”
date:   08/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘Whoever is dishonest in little things will be dishonest in big things too’ ” (Luke 16:10, ERV).

It is very easy to start doing the wrong thing, little by little, to get something we want, right? That is exactly what Jesus says in Luke 16:10. The problem is that the first wrong little thing we do to get what we want leads to our doing another wrong little thing. Then that leads us to do another wrong little thing. And then we do another wrong little thing and another wrong little thing until we become “ ‘dishonest in big things too.’ ” Let us keep this warning in mind as we now look at the story in Daniel 1.

`Read Daniel 1. Daniel 1 tells us how Daniel, Hannaniah, Mishael, and Azariah put God first in their lives. How does their strong loyalty to God and their faith show us what God wanted Israel to be to all the countries and people on the earth? Read also Deuteronomy 4:6–8 and Zechariah 8:23 to help you answer the question.`

The king of Babylon wanted to find out how smart Daniel and his friends were. The king asked Daniel and his friends many difficult questions to test them. Daniel and his friends gave very wise answers. The king learned that Daniel and his friends “knew ten times more” than all the wise men and magicians in Babylon (Daniel 1:20, NLV). The wise answers of Daniel and his friends show us that there is a clear connection between the food we eat and how wise we are. Daniel 1 also says that God gave Daniel and his friends their knowledge and wisdom. Daniel and his friends refused to eat the unclean food served to them at the king’s table. Instead, they obeyed God’s food laws. So, God gave Daniel and his three friends much wisdom because of their loyalty to Him. Daniel and his three friends obeyed God, and God blessed their obedience. Would God have done the same thing for all the people of Israel if they had obeyed God’s teachings the way that Daniel and his friends obeyed? Yes, God would have! God will bless us today, too, if we are loyal to His teachings in these last days.

`God gave Seventh-day Adventists much truth. As a church, we must ask ourselves: How have we shared this truth with other people? How can we be better witnesses?`
