---
title:  'Daniel: A Heart with No Pride'
date:   09/04/2018
---

All over the world, Daniel 2 has helped more people than we can ever count all over the earth to believe in the God of the Bible. Daniel 2 gives powerful proof that God is real and that He knows everything before it happens. The fact that Daniel 2 shows us that God knows the future is proof that God is real.

`Read Daniel 2. How does Daniel 2 give us powerful proof for believing that God is real? Daniel 2 also describes Europe today (Daniel 2:40–43). How is it even possible for a man who lived around 2,600 years ago to write about the things happening in Europe today? How are Daniel’s writings proof that God knows everything that will happen in the future before it happens?`

God showed Daniel things that would happen in the future. Daniel gave God all the praise for this knowledge. Daniel could have bragged to the king. Daniel could have said that the reason he knew and understood the dream was because he, Daniel, was very wise. But Daniel did not do that. Daniel and his friends prayed to God for wisdom to know the king’s dream and understand it. Their prayers show how much they depended on God for wisdom (Daniel 2:17–23). Daniel and his friends knew that without God’s help they would have died with the rest of the king’s wise men.

Later, Daniel reminded the king that none of the king’s wise men or magicians could tell the king his dream. But Daniel knew there was a God in heaven who could tell us secret things. God can make mysteries known to us because He is the only true God.

Daniel was a powerful witness because he had a heart with no pride. He depended on God for everything. Now, if Daniel needed to show that he had a heart with no pride, how much more do we need to show that our hearts have no pride too? After all, God gave us His truth about His plan to save humans. So, Jesus’ death for us on the cross should help us not to be proud.

`What does the Cross teach us about why we should not be proud? Where would we be with no Cross? Why is the Cross the only thing we can brag about? (Read Galatians 6:14.)`
