---
title:  The Gold Statue
date:   10/04/2018
---

Many Bible students have seen the connection between the story in Daniel 3 and Revelation 13. Revelation 13 tells us about the awful things that God’s people suffered in the past. Revelation 13 also shows us the awful things that God’s people will suffer in the last days.

`How is Daniel 3:1–6 the same as Revelation 13:11–15?`

Both chapters deal with the topic of worship. These chapters show us how the ruling powers in control of the earth force people to worship them. These ruling powers try to steal from God the worship that belongs to God alone.

`Read Daniel 3:13–18. What can we learn from this story to help us understand (1) the troubles we will meet in the last days and (2) how we need to get ready to meet them?`

In Daniel’s time, Nebuchadnezzar was the most powerful ruler on Earth. King Nebuchadnezzar laughed at Daniel’s three friends and their God. The king said, “ ‘What god will be able to save you from my power?’ ” (Daniel 3:15, NIrV). The proud king was soon to find out for himself just who that God was. Later, the king said, “ ‘Praise the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Their God has sent his angel and saved his servants from the fire! These three men trusted their God and refused to obey my command. They were willing to die instead of serving or worshiping any other god’ ” (Daniel 3:28, ERV).

God saved these three young men from death. This miracle showed the king that there was something very special about the God that these three men served.

But what if God had not saved them? The young men understood that they could be burned alive (Daniel 3:18). They did not know what would happen to them when the king’s servants threw them into the big hot fire. But the three young men chose to do the right thing anyway, even if they lost their lives. Their story shows us how strong their faith was. These men were willing to die for their faith.

`How can we be sure that we will be as loyal to God in these last days as Daniel and his three friends were in their own day?`
