---
title:  When People Who Do Not Believe Turn to God
date:   11/04/2018
---

Daniel 3 ends with Nebuchadnezzar believing that God is the only true God and that His power is real. But is knowing about God and His power the same thing as being born again? No. Jesus said we need to be born again to be saved (John 3:7). As we can see in Daniel 4:30, King Nebuchadnezzar was far from being a changed man.

`Read Daniel 4:30. What was the king’s problem? Read also John 14:5; Acts 17:28; and Daniel 5:23 for a hint.`

At the end of Daniel 4, King Nebuchadnezzar finds out the hard way that all true power comes from God. The king learns that without God he is nothing at all.

“The king had been cruel and unfair in the past. But now he became a wise and kind ruler. King Nebuchadnezzar had refused to obey God and even challenged God’s power. The king had insulted the God of heaven. But now the king praised the power of God All-Powerful. The king wanted the true worship of God and respect for God’s law to grow. The king wanted his people to be happy. This big change happened because the King of all kings scolded this mighty king of the earth. Nebuchadnezzar at last learned the lesson that every ruler needs to learn: true power and glory come from being good. King Nebuchadnezzar honored God as the only true living God. The king said, ‘ “Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and honor the King of heaven. For [because] all His works are true and His ways are right. And He is able to bring down those who walk in pride” ’ [Daniel 4:37, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [special messengers] and Kings, page 521, adapted.

`Read Daniel 4:35. What truths about God does Nebuchadnezzar talk about in these verses?`

Daniel 4 ends with a non-Jew accepting the power of the “Hebrew” God to rule in his heart and over the whole earth. Nebuchadnezzar’s story is a promise about what would happen in the future during the New Testament church. At that time, many non-Jews would learn about Jesus. Then they would share that truth with other people everywhere.

`Read John 3:7. What does Jesus say is the one thing that will help His people be ready for the last days?`
