---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/04/2018
---

“We are coming near to the end of this earth’s history. Now, as never before, we should give special attention to the book of Daniel. This book talks about the time that we are living in now. We should read the book of Revelation along with the book of Daniel. The teachings in the book of Revelation are connected in a special way to the messages in Daniel. Satan has led many people to believe that they cannot understand the special messages about the future in the books by Daniel and John. But that is not true. God promises us very clearly that He will bless in a special way the people who study the messages about the future in these two books. ‘ “But the wise people will understand them [the special messages in the book of Daniel]” ’ [Daniel 12:10, ERV]. Jesus also promises to help His people understand the special messages in the book of Revelation. Jesus gave these messages to His servant John to help guide His people during the many long years after Jesus went back to heaven. Jesus promised: ‘ “The man who reads this Book [Revelation] and listens to it being read and obeys what it says will be happy” ’ [Revelation 1:3, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [special messengers] and Kings, pages 547, 548, adapted.  

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Read Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:3–19. How does this prayer show us that Daniel understood the meaning of grace? Grace is God’s mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. How does Daniel’s prayer also show us that God loves us and that He saves us because of His own mercy and not because we have done anything to be worthy of His saving us? We must understand this truth, yes. But why must we experience it too?`

`2.	In class, discuss the difficulties that the three Hebrews faced in Daniel 3 and that Daniel faced in Daniel 6. How did these men stand up for their religious beliefs? How are the stories in these two chapters the same? What about them is different? What can we learn from both stories about how being loyal to God will help us to be powerful witnesses?`

`3.	What does it mean to be “born again”? Why would Jesus say that we “ ‘must be born again’ ” (John 3:7, NLV)?`
