src/en/2019-02-er/13/01.md, before:

---
title: 'The Work Of Elijah In The End Time'
date: 22/06/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Malachi 4:5, 6; 1 Kings 16:29–17:24; 1 Kings 18:20–45; Matthew 3:2, 8; Luke 1:17.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘I will send the prophet [special messenger] Elijah to you. He will come before the day of the Lord arrives. It will be a great [happening worldwide] and terrifying [full of trouble] day. Elijah will bring peace between parents and their children. He will also bring peace between children and their parents. If that does not happen, I will come. And I will completely destroy the land’ ” (Malachi 4:5, 6, NIrV). 

**SOMETIMES** our lives are wonderful. Sometimes they are not. Sometimes our families are strong. Other times they seem ready to break. That is why we must hold tight to God’s promises at all times. We must hold them with our whole heart. In the end, God’s promises are our only hope. They give us wonderful hope! The Bible is full of promises. 

We can trust in these promises when our families are strong and when they are about to break. We can trust in God’s promises for ourselves, our loved ones, our family, and our church. 

This week, we will study some Bible stories, promises, and experiences. We will look at the lessons they can teach us today. Whoever you are, wherever you are, whatever time of life you are in, you no doubt have worries, fears, and troubles. But there is good news. We worship a God who knows what our troubles are. He has an answer for every problem in our lives.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/13/01.md, after:

---
title: 'The Work Of Elijah In The End Time'
date: 22/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Malachi 4:5, 6; 1 Kings 16:29–17:24; 1 Kings 18:20–45; Matthew 3:2, 8; Luke 1:17.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘I will send the prophet [special messenger] Elijah to you. He will come before the day of the Lord arrives. It will be a great [happening worldwide] and terrifying [full of trouble] day. Elijah will bring peace between parents and their children. He will also bring peace between children and their parents. If that does not happen, I will come. And I will completely destroy the land’ ” (Malachi 4:5, 6, NIrV). 

**SOMETIMES** our lives are wonderful. Sometimes they are not. Sometimes our families are strong. Other times they seem ready to break. That is why we must hold tight to God’s promises at all times. We must hold them with our whole heart. In the end, God’s promises are our only hope. They give us wonderful hope! The Bible is full of promises. 

We can trust in these promises when our families are strong and when they are about to break. We can trust in God’s promises for ourselves, our loved ones, our family, and our church. 

This week, we will study some Bible stories, promises, and experiences. We will look at the lessons they can teach us today. Whoever you are, wherever you are, whatever time of life you are in, you no doubt have worries, fears, and troubles. But there is good news. We worship a God who knows what our troubles are. He has an answer for every problem in our lives.
