src/en/2019-02-er/13/02.md, before:

---
title: 'Malachi S Special Message'
date: 23/06/2019
---

`Malachi tells us that Elijah will come before Jesus does (Malachi 4:5, 6). Now read about the coming of Elijah in Matthew 11:14, 15; Matthew 17:10; Mark 6:15; and Luke 1:17. What do these verses teach us about Elijah?`

In the days of Malachi, God tells His people to come back to Him. “ ‘Come back to me, and I will come back to you’ ” (Malachi 3:7, ERV). How do God’s people answer? “ ‘ “How can we come back?” ’ ” (Malachi 3:7, ERV). Malachi is God’s special messenger. He tells the people that God will give them one more chance to come back to Him. They will have one more chance to change their hearts. Malachi asks them to remember the time of Elijah (1 Kings 18:37). Malachi says that Elijah will come again. Then Elijah will “ ‘help the parents become close to their children, and he will help the children become close to their parents’ ” (Malachi 4:6, ERV). 

As time passes, the Jews start to believe that Elijah himself will come to tell the Jews that the Savior is coming (read Matthew 17:10; Mark 6:15). But Elijah is a symbol or word picture for John the Baptist (read Matthew 11:14, 15; Luke 1:17). John the Baptist comes before Jesus does. John does the work of Elijah. John tells everyone to get ready for the Savior to come.

`What do you think the words “turn the hearts” mean in Malachi 4:6 (NLV)?`

“Turn the hearts” can mean several things. (1) It shows that Jesus will help His people become one with God again. It helps us to see God as our Father, who turns away from His deep anger back to His children (Micah 7:18, 19). God calls His children to come back to Him (Isaiah 44:22; Malachi 3:7). (2) “Turn the hearts” also shows that God’s people will follow the faith of their fathers again. They will be loyal to God’s Special Agreement with His people. In the past, when the people obeyed God, God blessed the land and His people (Deuteronomy 4:29–31). (3) “Turn the hearts” also shows that family ties will be made new. The love between parents and their children shows their love for God. This love is part of God’s Special Agreement too. As God’s people show their love for their children, God will continue to bless their land (Proverbs 2:21).

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/13/02.md, after:

---
title: 'Malachi S Special Message'
date: 23/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Malachi tells us that Elijah will come before Jesus does (Malachi 4:5, 6). Now read about the coming of Elijah in Matthew 11:14, 15; Matthew 17:10; Mark 6:15; and Luke 1:17. What do these verses teach us about Elijah?`

In the days of Malachi, God tells His people to come back to Him. “ ‘Come back to me, and I will come back to you’ ” (Malachi 3:7, ERV). How do God’s people answer? “ ‘ “How can we come back?” ’ ” (Malachi 3:7, ERV). Malachi is God’s special messenger. He tells the people that God will give them one more chance to come back to Him. They will have one more chance to change their hearts. Malachi asks them to remember the time of Elijah (1 Kings 18:37). Malachi says that Elijah will come again. Then Elijah will “ ‘help the parents become close to their children, and he will help the children become close to their parents’ ” (Malachi 4:6, ERV). 

As time passes, the Jews start to believe that Elijah himself will come to tell the Jews that the Savior is coming (read Matthew 17:10; Mark 6:15). But Elijah is a symbol or word picture for John the Baptist (read Matthew 11:14, 15; Luke 1:17). John the Baptist comes before Jesus does. John does the work of Elijah. John tells everyone to get ready for the Savior to come.

`What do you think the words “turn the hearts” mean in Malachi 4:6 (NLV)?`

“Turn the hearts” can mean several things. (1) It shows that Jesus will help His people become one with God again. It helps us to see God as our Father, who turns away from His deep anger back to His children (Micah 7:18, 19). God calls His children to come back to Him (Isaiah 44:22; Malachi 3:7). (2) “Turn the hearts” also shows that God’s people will follow the faith of their fathers again. They will be loyal to God’s Special Agreement with His people. In the past, when the people obeyed God, God blessed the land and His people (Deuteronomy 4:29–31). (3) “Turn the hearts” also shows that family ties will be made new. The love between parents and their children shows their love for God. This love is part of God’s Special Agreement too. As God’s people show their love for their children, God will continue to bless their land (Proverbs 2:21).
