src/en/2019-02-er/13/03.md, before:

---
title: 'Together Again'
date: 24/06/2019
---

Queen Jezebel brought the worship of the god Baal to Israel. Jezebel came from the land of Sidon. She married King Ahab. Baal worship caused the people of Israel to sin a lot. They turned away from God’s teachings. God taught His people to honor marriage, family, and the gift of sex. But Baal worship brought evil practices into the land. Soon God’s people forgot God’s teachings about marriage, family, and sex sins. They started to have sex with their own family members. Their daughters became prostitutes. Prostitutes are women who have sex for money. God’s people also did other sex sins against God. So, God sent Elijah to warn His people to turn away from evil. Elijah’s name means “Jehovah is my God.” Elijah scolds the people for worshiping Baal.

`What did Elijah do to turn God’s people back to Him? How did he bring new life to families? Read 1 Kings 16:29–17:24 for the answer. Compare these verses with Luke 4:25, 26. How are these verses the same?`

Elijah tells King Ahab that no rain will fall on the land. Ahab gets very mad at Elijah. The king wants Elijah dead. But God protects Elijah. God sends Elijah to the home of a widow who lives in Zarephath. Zarephath was in the land of Sidon, near Queen Jezebel’s hometown. Elijah gives the widow a big test. He tells her to use her last pieces of wood, oil, and flour to feed him. She chooses to trust God. So, she helps Elijah. Her faith becomes a powerful story. Later, Jesus Himself praises her faith (Luke 4:26). God blesses the widow’s oil and flour so that they do not run out for many days. The woman learns that Jehovah is a God of love. Then something sad happens. Her only son gets sick and dies. The false religions of the day taught that God punished people for their past sins by killing their children. The widow believes that God let her son die to punish her for her past sins.

`Elijah woke up the widow’s son from the dead. How did this miracle change the widow’s spiritual experience with God? Read 1 Kings 17:24 for the answer. What can we learn from the widow’s words to Elijah?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/13/03.md, after:

---
title: 'Together Again'
date: 24/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Queen Jezebel brought the worship of the god Baal to Israel. Jezebel came from the land of Sidon. She married King Ahab. Baal worship caused the people of Israel to sin a lot. They turned away from God’s teachings. God taught His people to honor marriage, family, and the gift of sex. But Baal worship brought evil practices into the land. Soon God’s people forgot God’s teachings about marriage, family, and sex sins. They started to have sex with their own family members. Their daughters became prostitutes. Prostitutes are women who have sex for money. God’s people also did other sex sins against God. So, God sent Elijah to warn His people to turn away from evil. Elijah’s name means “Jehovah is my God.” Elijah scolds the people for worshiping Baal.

`What did Elijah do to turn God’s people back to Him? How did he bring new life to families? Read 1 Kings 16:29–17:24 for the answer. Compare these verses with Luke 4:25, 26. How are these verses the same?`

Elijah tells King Ahab that no rain will fall on the land. Ahab gets very mad at Elijah. The king wants Elijah dead. But God protects Elijah. God sends Elijah to the home of a widow who lives in Zarephath. Zarephath was in the land of Sidon, near Queen Jezebel’s hometown. Elijah gives the widow a big test. He tells her to use her last pieces of wood, oil, and flour to feed him. She chooses to trust God. So, she helps Elijah. Her faith becomes a powerful story. Later, Jesus Himself praises her faith (Luke 4:26). God blesses the widow’s oil and flour so that they do not run out for many days. The woman learns that Jehovah is a God of love. Then something sad happens. Her only son gets sick and dies. The false religions of the day taught that God punished people for their past sins by killing their children. The widow believes that God let her son die to punish her for her past sins.

`Elijah woke up the widow’s son from the dead. How did this miracle change the widow’s spiritual experience with God? Read 1 Kings 17:24 for the answer. What can we learn from the widow’s words to Elijah?`
