src/en/2019-02-er/13/04.md, before:

---
title: 'The People Turn Back To God'
date: 25/06/2019
---

`Read 1 Kings 18:20–45. What is happening in these verses? What important rule does this story teach us? How can that rule help us solve problems in our families?`

Elijah stands on Mount Carmel. He wants his people to turn back to God and their faith. He wants them to enter into their Special Agreement with God again. Then God can heal them, their homes, and their land. 

Baal’s religious leaders fail to get their god to answer their prayers. Now it is Elijah’s turn to pray to his God. It is evening. This time of day helped the people to remember God’s plan to save them (read Exodus 29:41). Elijah tells the people, “ ‘Come here to me,’ ” (1 Kings 18:30, NIrV). These words help us think about the way Jesus welcomes sinners to come to Him (Matthew 11:28). God never stops working to bring His lost children back to Himself.

God’s altar is old and broken. So, Elijah fixes it. God’s altar is a word picture for family-worship time. Family worship is a chance to talk to God in prayer. It also is a chance to talk about Jesus together. It gives us a chance to accept God’s saving gift again. And it gives us another chance to think about Jesus’ teachings.

Elijah asks God to show the people that He accepts them again. First Kings 18:37, ICB, says: “ ‘Lord, answer my prayer. Show these people that you, Lord, are God. Then the people will know that you are bringing them back to you.’ ” We cannot turn our hearts to God. We can only answer His love. God gives us His love freely. 

Fire falls from heaven. It does not fall on the sinners. It falls on the animal on the altar. This animal shows us Jesus. It is a word picture of His death on the cross. “Christ [Jesus] had no sin. But God made him become sin. God did this for us so that in [with] Christ we could [can] become right with God” (2 Corinthians 5:21, ICB). Then the people praise God. The false religious leaders do not answer God’s invitation to come back to Him. So, Elijah puts them to death. Then rain falls upon the dry land.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/13/04.md, after:

---
title: 'The People Turn Back To God'
date: 25/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 Kings 18:20–45. What is happening in these verses? What important rule does this story teach us? How can that rule help us solve problems in our families?`

Elijah stands on Mount Carmel. He wants his people to turn back to God and their faith. He wants them to enter into their Special Agreement with God again. Then God can heal them, their homes, and their land. 

Baal’s religious leaders fail to get their god to answer their prayers. Now it is Elijah’s turn to pray to his God. It is evening. This time of day helped the people to remember God’s plan to save them (read Exodus 29:41). Elijah tells the people, “ ‘Come here to me,’ ” (1 Kings 18:30, NIrV). These words help us think about the way Jesus welcomes sinners to come to Him (Matthew 11:28). God never stops working to bring His lost children back to Himself.

God’s altar is old and broken. So, Elijah fixes it. God’s altar is a word picture for family-worship time. Family worship is a chance to talk to God in prayer. It also is a chance to talk about Jesus together. It gives us a chance to accept God’s saving gift again. And it gives us another chance to think about Jesus’ teachings.

Elijah asks God to show the people that He accepts them again. First Kings 18:37, ICB, says: “ ‘Lord, answer my prayer. Show these people that you, Lord, are God. Then the people will know that you are bringing them back to you.’ ” We cannot turn our hearts to God. We can only answer His love. God gives us His love freely. 

Fire falls from heaven. It does not fall on the sinners. It falls on the animal on the altar. This animal shows us Jesus. It is a word picture of His death on the cross. “Christ [Jesus] had no sin. But God made him become sin. God did this for us so that in [with] Christ we could [can] become right with God” (2 Corinthians 5:21, ICB). Then the people praise God. The false religious leaders do not answer God’s invitation to come back to Him. So, Elijah puts them to death. Then rain falls upon the dry land.
