src/en/2019-02-er/13/05.md, before:

---
title: 'John Turns Hearts At The Jordan River'
date: 26/06/2019
---

Before Jesus’ first coming, the angel Gabriel announces that John the Baptist soon will be born. Jesus Himself says that John is the Elijah that Malachi promises will come (Matthew 11:14; Matthew 17:12, 13). The writers of the books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke also say that John the Baptist is the “messenger” that will get people ready to meet Jesus (Matthew 11:10; Mark 1:2; Luke 7:27; compare Malachi 3:1).

`Look at John’s message in Matthew 3:2, 8; Matthew 14:4; Mark 1:4; Luke 3:3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14. What was John’s message about? How did he “turn the hearts” (Malachi 4:6, NLV) of the people back to God and to each other?`

A farmer plows hard ground to get it ready for planting seed. In the same way, John got people’s hearts ready for Jesus. John told the people that sin was wrong. He told them to turn away from sin and back to God. John’s work shows us that we need to see our sin. Then we will see how much we need a Savior. John’s message turned people to a holy God. It showed them their guilt and their deep need of God’s mercy and forgiveness. We must say we are sorry for our sins. We must empty our hearts of all pride. Then we must look to God for help to change our behavior. John the Baptist showed the people that their belief that Abraham was their father was not enough to save them. They needed something more. They needed the faith that belonged to Abraham.

`How did the message of John the Baptist get the people ready to meet Jesus? Read John 1:35–37 and John 3:27–30 for the answers.`

God showed John that Jesus was the Lamb of God. John told the people that Jesus was the Lamb (John 1:29, 36). This Name, the Lamb of God, turned the people back to the Lord. Andrew and John were two of John the Baptist’s followers. They left John the Baptist’s side that day and became Jesus’ followers. The Elijah message that John the Baptist preached shows people the need to turn away from sin. That message shows us Jesus, who saves us from sin. 

`Let us say that John the Baptist is coming to your house today. What do you think he will say to you?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/13/05.md, after:

---
title: 'John Turns Hearts At The Jordan River'
date: 26/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Before Jesus’ first coming, the angel Gabriel announces that John the Baptist soon will be born. Jesus Himself says that John is the Elijah that Malachi promises will come (Matthew 11:14; Matthew 17:12, 13). The writers of the books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke also say that John the Baptist is the “messenger” that will get people ready to meet Jesus (Matthew 11:10; Mark 1:2; Luke 7:27; compare Malachi 3:1).

`Look at John’s message in Matthew 3:2, 8; Matthew 14:4; Mark 1:4; Luke 3:3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14. What was John’s message about? How did he “turn the hearts” (Malachi 4:6, NLV) of the people back to God and to each other?`

A farmer plows hard ground to get it ready for planting seed. In the same way, John got people’s hearts ready for Jesus. John told the people that sin was wrong. He told them to turn away from sin and back to God. John’s work shows us that we need to see our sin. Then we will see how much we need a Savior. John’s message turned people to a holy God. It showed them their guilt and their deep need of God’s mercy and forgiveness. We must say we are sorry for our sins. We must empty our hearts of all pride. Then we must look to God for help to change our behavior. John the Baptist showed the people that their belief that Abraham was their father was not enough to save them. They needed something more. They needed the faith that belonged to Abraham.

`How did the message of John the Baptist get the people ready to meet Jesus? Read John 1:35–37 and John 3:27–30 for the answers.`

God showed John that Jesus was the Lamb of God. John told the people that Jesus was the Lamb (John 1:29, 36). This Name, the Lamb of God, turned the people back to the Lord. Andrew and John were two of John the Baptist’s followers. They left John the Baptist’s side that day and became Jesus’ followers. The Elijah message that John the Baptist preached shows people the need to turn away from sin. That message shows us Jesus, who saves us from sin. 

`Let us say that John the Baptist is coming to your house today. What do you think he will say to you?`
