---
title: 'The Work Of Elijah In The Last Days'
date: 27/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As Adventists, we see ourselves doing the work that John the Baptist did. John’s job was to announce the first coming of Jesus. This news is named the Elijah message. John told the people to turn away from sin and to change their lives. As Seventh-day Adventists, we see ourselves doing the same work before Jesus’ Second Coming. 

`Read Luke 1:17. Pray as you read these verses. Ask God to help you understand these words. How do they show the Seventh-day Adventist message and the work God gave our church to do?`

God our Father turns the hearts of His children back to Himself. He turns the hearts of His children to each other. Jesus’ death on the cross makes these changes in human hearts possible. The Elijah message tells people to believe this wonderful news (2 Corinthians 5:18–21; compare Ephesians 2:11–18). The Elijah message also tells God’s people to let God fill them with His loving-favor. 

The people on this earth need to see God’s love so badly. They need to see an example of people who are not selfish. They need to see an example of people who care about other people and are loyal to God. God can help Christian families to be an example of His truth and love to the people on this earth. At the same time, we also must remember something important. This message we have for everyone on the earth also is for you and me. So, we need to let God’s truth and love live in our hearts. Without God’s truth and love, we will not be able to share His message with other people. We can preach the most wonderful sermons. But they are not enough. The people on this earth need to see that we and our families have turned our hearts to the Lord. They need to see the love that we preach about. John changed lives because God’s power changed his life. He lived what he preached. We can do what John did. But only if we work together with God. Jesus makes us part of the family in heaven (Ephesians 3:15). He makes us children of God again. God asks His children to be His witnesses on earth. Large or small, our family can show the people on this earth the power of the Good News about Jesus.

`What can you do to show the people around you how much you love and care about them?`