---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 28/06/2019
---

Ellen G. White, “Carmel,” pages 143–154, in Prophets [special messengers] and Kings; “The Voice in the Wilderness,” pages 97–108, in The Desire of Ages.

“Our message must be clear. It must be as clear as John’s message was. He scolded kings for their sins. He always preached the truth. He did not worry about the danger to his life. We must do our work for God with the same loyalty and faith that John showed when he preached.”—Ellen G. White Comments [ideas], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 4, page 1184, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. As a class, talk about the Elijah message. How important is this message to your local church? What can you do to help your church understand this message? How can you help them share this message with other people?`

`2. Ask for class members to share their experiences about the time they turned their hearts back to God. What changes happened in their lives? How did this experience change their lives and the lives of their families?`

`3. We see ourselves as doing the same work as John the Baptist. What happened to John the Baptist? What should we expect to happen to us?`

`4. What is the Bible’s idea of a good family? As a class, make a list of important Bible rules for having a good family. What have you learned from this Bible study guide that can help you know what these Bible rules are? Share your ideas with the whole church.`

`5. As a parent, what promises does the Bible give you for your children? What if your children turn away from the Lord? What promises can you trust in while you ask God to turn your children back to Him?`