---
title:  Prophecy and Scripture
date:   27/05/2017
---

### Prophecy and Scripture

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isa. 53:1–12; Dan. 7:13, 14; 2 Pet. 1:16–20; Matt. 17:1–6; 2 Tim. 3:15–17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “We have also a more sure word of prophecy; where-unto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts” (2 Peter 1:19). 

As we continue to study the letters of Peter, one point should stand out: how confident and how certain Peter is in what he is writing. We can see the same with Paul: clear and firm conviction about what they are proclaiming in regard to Jesus Christ and the Cross.

In the texts for this week, we will see more of this certainty in Peter. And he even tells us why he has such certainty. We don’t believe, he said, “cunningly devised fables” (2 Pet. 1:16)—such as those that comprised the pagan religions of their time. Instead, Peter was sure of what he believed in, for two reasons.

First, he was an eyewitness to “our Lord Jesus Christ” (2 Pet. 1:8). But second, and perhaps even more important (because almost everyone else will not be an eyewitness), is the “sure word of prophecy” (2 Pet. 1:19). Peter again goes back to the Bible, pointing to the Scriptures for the certain affirmation of Jesus, especially the prophetic sections that talked about Him. No doubt these are some of the same sections that Jesus referred to regarding Himself (Matt. 26:54, Luke 24:27). So if Jesus and Peter took the Bible this seriously, how dare we do otherwise ourselves?

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, June 3._