---
title:  Jesus in the Old Testament
date:   28/05/2017
---

### Jesus in the Old Testament 

All through his epistles, Peter writes with a sense of certainty. He knows what he is talking about because he knows whom he is talking about. And one reason is that he knows that Jesus was the One to whom the Old Testament prophets pointed. It was Peter’s trust in the Written Word that helped him know the Word “made flesh” (John 1:14).

In 1 Peter 1:10–12, Peter points his readers to the Hebrew Bible, to the prophets of old, and what they taught about Jesus. According to Peter, the Holy Spirit revealed in the Old Testament two crucial truths about Jesus: the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories that would follow (1 Pet. 1:11). These two strands can be found throughout the Hebrew Bible.

`What do these texts together teach about what the Old Testament predicted concerning Jesus? Psalm 22; Isa. 53:1–12; Zech. 12:10; 13:7; Jer. 33:14, 15; Dan. 7:13, 14.`

In 1 Peter 1:10–12, Peter assures his readers that they occupy a very special place in salvation history. To them had been revealed much more than what was revealed to the prophets of old. The prophets indeed spoke to their own times, but crucial parts of their messages would not be fulfilled until the coming of Christ. 

Some of what the prophets had predicted had come true only in the time in which Peter’s readers were then living. These readers 

were able to hear from those “who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven,” truths that even the angels desired to know (1 Pet. 1:12, NKJV). Having had the gospel preached to them, the people knew in much more detail than did the prophets of old the reality and nature of the Redeemer’s suffering and humiliation. Of course, they will have to wait, as will we, for “the glories that would follow” (1 Pet. 1:11, NKJV). With the first part of those prophecies fulfilled, we can be certain about the last part, as well.

`What biblical promises have you seen fulfilled in your life? Which ones are you still waiting for, what do they mean to you, and how can you learn to hold on to them, no matter what?`