---
title:  The Morning Star in Our Hearts
date:   30/05/2017
---

### The Morning Star in Our Hearts 

“And so we have the prophetic word confirmed, which you do well to heed as a light that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts” (2 Pet. 1:19, NKJV). 

`Read this text carefully. What is Peter saying that is so important to us, even today?`

Here, as we can see in many places in the Bible (Gen. 1:4, John 1:5, Isa. 5:20, Eph. 5:8), a division is made between light and darkness. For Peter the Word of God shone like a light in a “dark” place (some translate the word dark as “squalid,” “dirty,” as well). That’s why he’s so clear that we need to take “heed” to that light, to follow it until “the day dawns and the morning star rises in [our] hearts.” We are fallen beings, living in a fallen and dark world. We need the supernatural power of God to lead us out of this darkness and to the light, and that light is Jesus.

Peter is pointing his readers to a goal. Some believe that the expression “until the day dawns” refers to the second coming of Jesus. Though that’s certainly our ultimate hope, the idea of the “morning star” rising in your hearts sounds more immediate and more personal. The “morning star” refers to Jesus (Rev. 2:28, 22:16). His rising in their hearts seems to be about knowing Jesus, fully taking hold of Him and experiencing the reality of the living Christ in their own individual lives. Jesus shouldn’t be just a doctrinal truth; He should be the center of our existence and source of our hope and faith. So, Peter is establishing a clear link between studying the Word of God and having a saving relationship with Jesus, the “morning star.” 

And, of course, with the light shining in us, we will spread it to others. “The whole earth is to be illuminated with the glory of God’s truth. The light is to shine to all lands and all peoples. And it is from those who have received the light that it is to shine forth. The day-star has risen upon us, and we are to flash its light upon the pathway of those in darkness.”—Ellen G. White, Christian Experience and Teachings of Ellen G. White, p. 220. 

`How does your own study of the Word help you to come to know Jesus better?`