---
title:  Further Thought
date:   02/06/2017
---

#### Further Thought

“It is the first and highest duty of every rational being to learn from the Scriptures what is truth, and then to walk in the light and encourage others to follow his example. We should day by day study the Bible diligently, weighing every thought and comparing scripture with scripture. With divine help we are to form our opinions for ourselves as we are to answer for ourselves before God. 

“The truths most plainly revealed in the Bible have been involved in doubt and darkness by learned men, who, with a pretense of great wisdom, teach that the Scriptures have a mystical, a secret, spiritual meaning not apparent in the language employed. These men are false teachers. It was to such a class that Jesus declared: ‘Ye know not the Scriptures, neither the power of God.’ Mark 12:24. The language of the Bible should be explained according to its obvious meaning, unless a symbol or figure is employed. Christ has given the promise: ‘If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine.’ John 7:17. If men would but take the Bible as it reads, if there were no false teachers to mislead and confuse their minds, a work would be accomplished that would make angels glad and that would bring into the fold of Christ thousands upon thousands who are now wandering in error.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 598, 599.

#### Discussion Questions:

`What other crucial principles are involved in seeking to come to a clear understanding of Scripture?`

`Martin Luther wrote that “Scripture is its own light.” By that he meant that there’s an underlying unity in the Bible and that one part can be used to help us to understand other parts. What are some examples of this principle that you can find?`

`In class, go over your answer to Monday’s question about the event or events that greatly impacted your Christian experience. What do the events have in common, if anything? What can you learn from one another’s experiences?`

`If someone were to ask you how studying the Bible can deepen your walk with the Lord, what would you answer? What principles have you learned from your own experience of seeking to know the Lord Jesus through study of His Written Word?`