---
title:  Who Wrote the Bible?
date:   04/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

2 Peter 1:19–21; 2 Timothy 3:16, 17; Exodus 34:27; John 1:14; Hebrews 11:3, 6.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘We never stop thanking God for the way you received his word [Bible truth]. You heard it from us. But you didn’t accept it as a human word. You accepted it for what it really is. It is God’s word. It is really at work in you who believe’ ” (1 Thessalonians 2:13, NIrV).

WHERE DID THE BIBLE come from? How was it made? Is it really filled with God’s messages to us? The answers to these questions help us to understand why the Bible is so important to our lives and to our church worldwide. Our beliefs about the Bible come from our understanding about how God led men to write the Bible.

What is the best way to understand the Bible? First, we must let the Bible decide the rules that we use to read and understand its messages. We cannot study math with the same rules we use to study and understand science. We cannot study science with the same rules and tools we use to study history. In the same way, we cannot understand the Bible if we doubt it is true. We also must believe in God too. We also need to believe that God led humans to write the Bible. So, the most important thing we need to have is faith. Then we can start to understand what the Bible means with full faith in what God says.

This week, we will look at where the Bible came from and how it became a book. This will help us to understand the Bible better.

_The most important thing we need to have is faith. Then we can start to understand the Bible._
