---
title:  GOD GAVE HUMANS THE BIBLE
date:   05/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read 2 Peter 1:19–21. What does Peter say about where the Bible’s messages come from?`

The Bible is different from any other book. Peter says that the Holy Spirit led the prophets, or special messengers, to write the Bible. The Holy Spirit gave these men their messages. The prophets did not make up the messages they wrote. The Bible is “not just clever [interesting] stories that people invented” (2 Peter 1:16, ERV). So, we can trust the Bible. It is God’s truth for our lives. “No prophecy [special messages from God] ever came from what some person wanted to say. But people were led by the Holy Spirit and spoke words from God” (2 Peter 1:21, ERV). God chose humans to be His prophets. Then God showed them His truth.

Yes, God communicated with His servants, the prophets. That is why the Bible is special. It is filled with God’s power. It is His Word to us. We must remember these things when we study the Bible. Our holy God is the real writer of the Bible. That is why the books in the Bible are named God’s “Holy Writings” (Romans 1:2, NLV; 2 Timothy 3:15, NLV).

God gave us the Bible to change our lives. The Bible “is useful for teaching and for showing people what is wrong in their lives. It is useful for correcting faults and teaching the right way to live” (2 Timothy 3:16, ERV). The Bible “gives the man who belongs to God everything he needs to work well for Him” (2 Timothy 3:17, NLV).

We need the Holy Spirit’s help to understand and to follow Bible truth. Peter says that we must not force the Bible to say what we want it to say. We must accept God’s truth as He wrote it. That is why we need the Spirit’s help. He will help us to understand the Bible’s meaning.

The Bible also says, “When the Lord God decides to do something, he will first tell his servants, the prophets” (Amos 3:7, ERV). The word “revelation” shows us that God makes secret or hidden things known to us. As humans, we need God to make things known to us. We are sinners. Our sins separate us from God. So, we need God’s special help, or revelation, to understand His plan for our lives.

_Our Holy God is the real writer of the Bible._
