---
title:  HOW THE SPIRIT LED MEN TO WRITE THE BIBLE
date:   06/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

God uses language to show His truth to humans. So, this information helps us to see that God’s truth can be written in words. As we saw already, the Bible is God’s truth. God shares His truth with His servants, the prophets. Prophets are God’s special messengers. The Holy Spirit shows God’s truth to the prophets. The Spirit also makes sure that the prophets write God’s messages carefully. The Spirit keeps the messages safe from mistakes. That is the reason we can expect to see that all the books of the Bible agree with each other. They teach the same truths. We see this from Genesis to Revelation. (Compare Genesis 3:14, 15 to Revelation 12:17.)

`Read 2 Peter 1:21; 2 Timothy 3:16, 17; and Deuteronomy 18:18. What do these verses show us about how the prophets wrote the Bible?`

The whole Bible comes from God. True, some parts of the Bible do not have as much meaning for our lives now as they did for God’s people in the past. (One example is the Hebrew feasts. God asked the Israelites to celebrate these feasts. But we do not need to celebrate them today.) Yes, some parts of the Bible are not easy to read and understand. Other parts do not have as much meaning for our lives today. But we need to learn from all of the Bible.

Also, not everything in the Bible came from God in the same way. Sometimes God asked Bible writers to carefully study things around them. Other times God asked Bible writers to use information from books and records (read Joshua 10:13; Luke 1:1–3). God used these writings to communicate His message to His writers. Even so, the whole Bible comes from God (2 Timothy 3:16). This is the reason why Paul says, “Everything that was written in the past was written to teach us. Those things were written so that we could have hope” (Romans 15:4, ERV).

“The Bible shows us that God is its writer. At the same time, the Bible was written by human hands. The Bible writers used different writing styles. We see these different styles when we read the Bible. Yes, the truths shown in the Bible are ‘given by God’ (2 Timothy 3:16, ERV). But they are written in the words of men.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 7, adapted.

_The Holy Spirit shows God’s truth to the prophets._
