---
title:  THE WAYS THAT JESUS AND THE BIBLE ARE THE SAME
date:   08/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read John 1:14; John 2:22; John 8:31, 32; and John 17:17. These verses talk about Jesus and the Bible, the Word of God. Jesus also is God’s Word, or the Truth. Jesus, the Word, became a man. In what ways are Jesus and the Written Word of God, the Bible, the same?`

First, Jesus was born from a woman by the Holy Spirit’s power. In the same way, the Bible comes from God. But God gave the Bible to us by human writers. They wrote the Bible with the Holy Spirit’s help.

Jesus became a man. He lived during a certain time and at a certain place. But He continued to be God. Jesus is the only Savior for all people who ever lived on the earth (read Acts 4:12). In the same way, God gave us His Written Word, the Bible, at a certain time and place. But the Bible’s message is for anyone. Stories that happened in the past have something to teach us today. Bible truth is for all people everywhere.

God showed Himself to humans when He became a man. Jesus became a man after human flesh was weak from 4,000 years of sin. But Jesus did not sin. In the same way that Jesus was born in a human body, the Bible was written in human language. The Bible is not written in the language of angels that no one understands. Yes, language has its limits. It cannot say everything we want. But the God who made us made human language too. God can communicate His truth to humans in a way that we can understand and trust.

Of course, Jesus and the Bible are not exactly the same. Yes, there are many things that are the same about both of them. So, we can compare them to each other only in some ways. But the Bible is not God. God is not a book. God in Jesus became a man. We love the Bible because we worship the Savior that the Bible talks about.

The Bible is a special book. It shows how God works together with humans to write it. Ellen G. White understood this idea. She wrote: “The Bible is the truth that God gave us. Men wrote God’s truth in human language. The Bible shows us how God joins together with humans. We see this same thing in the life of Jesus. Jesus was the Son of God and the Son of Man. So, we can say the same thing about the Bible that John said about Jesus: ‘And the Word became flesh and dwelt [lived] among us.’ John 1:14, ESV.”—The Great Controversy, page 8, adapted.

_Bible truth is for all people._
