---
title:  WE NEED FAITH TO UNDERSTAND THE BIBLE
date:   09/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Hebrews 11:3, 6. Why must we have faith to understand God and the Bible? Can we make God happy without faith? If not, why do we need faith to please God?`

We must have faith. Or we cannot learn anything about God or the Bible. We must have the faith that a child has in his or her parents. This faith will help us to learn new things. Faith is trusting God to guide us. Faith is believing that God will help us learn about love and His plan for our lives. So, our knowledge and understanding about the Bible will grow while we learn how to grow closer to God.

It is also important to know that we will not understand the Bible correctly when we study it with doubt. We must study the Bible with a spirit of love and faith. Paul writes, “Without faith no one can please God” (Hebrews 11:6, ERV). So, we must have faith when we study the Bible. We also must believe that the Bible comes from God. It is not a human book. The Holy Spirit helped humans to write it.

Seventh-day Adventists talk about this idea in the Basic Beliefs of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. In the first belief, we read: “Both the Old and New Testaments are God’s Written Word. God gave it to humans. The human writers of the Bible spoke and wrote as they were led by the Holy Spirit. The Bible shows humans the knowledge they need to be saved. The Bible has the power to speak for God. It shows us what He wants from us. It shows us His perfect plan for our lives. The Bible shows us how we should think and feel. It helps us to judge our experiences and to understand them. The Bible teaches us God’s truth. We can trust the Bible. It is a clear and true record. It shows us God’s acts in history. (Psalm 119:105; Proverbs 30:5, 6; Isaiah 8:20; John 17:17; 1 Thessalonians 2:13; 2 Timothy 3:16, 17; Hebrews 4:12; and 2 Peter 1:20, 21.)”—“Fundamental Beliefs of Seventh-day Adventists,” in The Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual, page 162, adapted.

`Why must people have faith in the Bible when they study it? What happens if they do not have faith? What are the good reasons that we have for our faith in the Bible?`

_We must have the faith that a child has in his or her parents._
