---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   10/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read “2. Presuppositions Arising From the Claims of Scripture,” part a, “Origin,” and part b, “Authority,” in “Methods of Bible Study” (www.adventistbiblical research.org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study).

The Bible is very important to our faith. But the Bible has no real value for us if we do not have help from the Holy Spirit. So, we need to have the Holy Spirit in our hearts and minds. Then we will be able to understand what we read and study in the Bible.

“In the Bible, God gives men the knowledge they need to be saved. We must accept the Bible as God’s plan for our lives. The Bible is God’s Word. The Bible is true. It cannot lie or lead us in the wrong way. The Bible shows us what God expects of us. The Bible is God’s test for our lives. It shows us how we should think and feel. It teaches us the truth. The Bible helps us to understand all our experience. ... Yes, God shows us His plan for our lives in the Bible. But that does not mean that we do not need the Holy Spirit’s help. We need the Spirit to guide us and help us to understand the Bible. Jesus promised to give us the Holy Spirit. Jesus also promised that the Spirit will help His servants to understand Bible truth. The Spirit will make the Bible’s teachings clear to our minds. The Spirit will help us live Bible truth too. Remember, God’s Spirit helped men to write the Bible. So, the Spirit will not ever teach us anything that does not agree with the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 9, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Why does God show Himself and His plan to us in the Bible? Why do we need God to show us His truth in special ways?`

`2. God also shows Himself to us in nature. God shows Himself in dreams to His chosen servants too (Daniel 7:1; Genesis 15:1); and in signs (1 Kings 18:24, 38). Jesus also shows us who God is (Hebrews 1:1, 2). How has God shown Himself to you? Share your experience.`

`3. Some people teach that the stories in the Bible are made up stories that teach spiritual truths. Why is this way of thinking wrong?`

`4. What does your behavior teach other people about God? How do you show people who God is?`

_“Jesus promised that the Spirit will help His servants to understand Bible truth.”_
