---
title: 'A One-Way Trip'
date: 21/01/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Hebrews
11:8–19**

**A One-Way Trip**

It was not easy for Abraham to explain to his family and acquaintances why he was leaving. He risked losing safety, stability, familiarity, and prosperity by going to a place he had never been before. If it was nowadays, he couldn’t even Google it, because the place was not defined or even named by God.

The only information he got was enough: God’s testing Word called him to leave. God assured Abraham what He would do if he obeyed by faith, promising greatness, blessings, land, posterity, and far-reaching meaning and purpose in life. In him all families of the earth would be blessed!

We also cannot see the future when we obey God’s call to give up our plans and dreams to be His missionaries anywhere. When we accept this call, working as His representatives to bless others, God’s Word should be enough for us. All promises made to Abraham and the blessings that he received become ours if we follow his example of faith.

Some of us will also be called to leave our families and to serve God in different places. Others will be called to leave a profitable job, relationships, food, drink, types of destructive entertainment, music, fashion styles, you name it. The bottom line is that it is impossible to follow Jesus without any kind of self-denial. After all, He did the same, leaving heaven to come down to the earth and die for us.

Like today’s self-supported missionaries (as all of us are—even church-supported missionaries), Abraham knew that he would not be sponsored by any institution or donor in his missionary work. Instead, God Himself would sponsor him. For Abraham, this was more than enough. Investing all he had into God’s project, he departed with all his possessions, leaving nothing behind. He knew that he would never come back. It was a one-way trip, as it always should be with our spiritual journeys with God!

#### inScribe

Write out Hebrews 11:8–19 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Hebrews 11:17, 18. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `