---
title: Putting Others First
date: 22/01/2023
---

#### inGest

Abraham’s implicit and full trust in God’s providence was key in his dealings with his nephew Lot. When their herdsmen began to fight with each other, Abraham’s trust in God enabled him to be courteous and generous to Lot, offering him the option to choose where to go first.

This kind of generosity is a practical expression of trust, believing that nothing in the world will be able to harm you when God is backing you. Nothing! Not even when giving the best part in putting others first! After all, we trust that “all things work together for good to those who love God, who are called according to His purpose” (Rom. 8:28). So “if God is for us, who can be against us?” (v. 31).

Abraham trusted that his wealth, if he were to have any, would ultimately come from God, and not from calculated decisions made from limited human wisdom. After all, not all that seems to be profitable will really be so at the end. Who knows? Sometimes, by applying God’s principles and letting others take “the best part” (as Abraham did), you may be avoiding the very thing that would destroy your family and your spiritual life!

Abraham was able to acquire material things without compromising his spiritual walk and relationship with God. While not despising any opportunity for material gain, Abraham’s first goal was spiritual—to please God and to develop his spiritual intimacy with Him. He was waiting “for the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God” (Heb. 11:10), while aiming to follow His principles of life.

On the other hand, Lot’s decisions were frequently driven by the profit-first principle, which is a materialistic perspective on how to become rich. His desire for prosperity led him to choose the cities of the plain, surrounded by rich pastures, sophistication, comfort, and ease, without considering the spiritual risks. By doing so, he exposed his family to fatal spiritual and physical dangers.

A worldly, materialistic, sophisticated, and consumerist lifestyle will always erode our desire for heaven and our perception of eternity, turning our focus in gain for this life only. What about the influences upon the family? Children will be more inclined to choose God if they see their parents modeling His character by exercising self-denial and generosity. Lot’s greediness led him to a chain of circumstances that exposed his children and wife to corruptive influences that he was unable to counter.

By keeping himself from that wicked atmosphere, Abraham’s family was protected from its degrading influences. After Lot left him, God told Abraham that he would not lose anything by being courteous and generous. On the contrary, He asked Abraham to lift his eyes and to look in all directions, reassuring him that he and his descendants would possess that land forever. Abraham’s response was to build an altar to the Lord, presenting offerings as a simple act of worship (not a donation), an expression of faith in God’s greatness and of trust in His promises!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Hebrews 11:8–19. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How does God still call people today as He called Abraham? How may we hear His voice? What may prevent us listening to Him?`

`If God prospers covenant keepers, why do some God-fearers still lose their property (such as Job)?`