---
title: An Act of Worship
date: 23/01/2023
---

#### inTerpret

All the goods, all provisions, and all the people of Sodom and Gomorrah were taken by enemies in a war. Lot and his possessions were also taken. Moved by a sense of justice, Abraham and his 318 trained servants overtook the invaders, attacked them by night, and recovered all the goods and people, including Lot and his goods. (This episode should have taught Lot how fleeting worldly riches are.) According to the customs of that time, risking his life and winning the battle allowed Abraham to keep the spoil for himself. But what happens next?

Abraham was met by two kings: the king of Sodom, and another king who strangely was not involved in that war. Melchizedek was the king of Salem, but also a priest of God, the Most High. It may not be a coincidence that Salem (Jerusalem) was later associated with God’s center of worship (Ps. 76:2), His temple and storehouse, and the only place tithe and offerings were to be brought (Deuteronomy 12). Even today, offerings and the tithe must still be brought to God’s storehouse (Mal. 3:8–10), a centralized place established by God. From there, the tithe will be equitably distributed exclusively to all who should be supported by it—the authorized ministry (Num. 18:20–24; 1 Cor. 9:13, 14).

This Melchizedek blesses Abraham, pointing to God as the “possessor” of all things, and his protector. Before doing anything, Abraham returns the tithe “of all” (Gen. 14:20) to God’s representative, in an act of worship that expresses submission and allegiance to the “Possessor” of all things. It is noteworthy that Abraham did not deduct war expenses before tithing—even though it would have been appropriate.

The absence of any explanation of tithe indicates that it was a common pre-Israelite practice, adopted by God-fearing people since the days of Adam. This principle is still in force in the New Testament era, evidenced by Christ’s endorsement of it (Matt. 23:23). The tithe and the Sabbath are holy to the Lord, and the silence of the New Testament about the cancellation of their practice is additional evidence that both have not been repealed by Jesus.

Because tithe is a specific proportion of what was already received (exactly ten percent, no more, no less), it is impossible to tithe without a preceding blessing. Therefore, the act of tithing should express recognition that not only is God the “possessor” of all things, but also that He is the provider of income, or increase.

Consequently, not to return tithe, when there is an income or increase, means not recognizing Him as possessor of all things and the provider of that gain. This practical denial of God’s attributes produces great spiritual loss, and frequently leads to apostasy.

As indicated by God, tithe must be given as the right percentage, entirely brought to the right place (the storehouse; Mal. 3:8–10) and allocated for the right purpose—the support of the authorized ministry (Num. 18:20–24; 1 Cor. 9:7–14).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`If tithing should be an act of worship to God, why did Abraham deliver it to Melchizedek?`