---
title: 'An Extreme Offering'
date: 25/01/2023
---

#### inVite

After Abraham returns the tithe of the goods, the king of Sodom asks for the return of the people, but for Abraham to retain the remaining goods, which was according to the custom. Abraham, knowing that any attempt to take advantage of others’ misfortune is considered by God as robbery, returns everything, including all the remaining goods, to the king of Sodom.

After receiving God’s assurance of protection and of a very great reward, Abraham was also promised a son and that his descendants would possess that land!

When Abraham was ninety-nine (Genesis 17) and still childless through Sarai, God reaffirmed the covenant with Abraham, explaining that the land would be given to him as an everlasting possession under the condition that his descendants would also keep the covenant (v. 9). When children, after inheriting God’s properties from their pious parents, fall away from the faith, they essentially move God’s properties with them to Satan’s side, and will use the resources to strengthen the enemy’s cause. Since Adam, the rejection of the covenant (apostasy) has always implied the loss of God’s covenantal possessions.

When Abraham and Sarah finally received Isaac, their joy was so great and their emotions so moved that they were at a great risk of idolizing the child. The gift was not to be more important than the Giver. Therefore, God asks Abraham to offer Isaac in sacrifice, and specified a place where this sacrifice should be offered. It was the same place God would later also establish His temple and storehouse—the right place for delivering tithes and offerings.

Abraham now trembles at the realization that God will always require undivided allegiance. Paraphrasing theologian and missionary physician Albert Schweitzer, Abraham knew that if you have something that you cannot give back to Him, you don’t own it; it owns you, and will finally destroy you.

Accordingly, Abraham obeys and departs, walking side by side with his offering. When his arm was lifted to kill that precious gift, he was halted by a voice from heaven! God states, “now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from Me” (Gen. 22:12). This extreme test indicates that only those who will not withhold anything from God are recognized as subjects in His kingdom.

Lifting his eyes, Abraham sees a ram and offers it in place of Isaac, calling that spot “The-Lord-Will-Provide.” In one sense, God always provides our offerings, for we cannot bring anything to Him unless He has provided us with something beforehand.

But in a prophetic way, this name (“The-Lord-Will-Provide”) points to an Offering that would later be presented in that same place. A Son, provided by God, Jesus Christ, would die as His offering to all humanity. It is the death of the Son of God alone that makes available to us the repentance, forgiveness, redemption, and all other blessings that we need!

` `