---
title:  How to Read the Psalms
date:   30/12/2023
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Nehemiah 12:8; Psalm 25:1-5; Psalm 3; 2 Samuel 23:1, 2; Psalm 16:8.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus said to them, ‘Remember when I was with you before? I said that everything written about me must happen—everything written in the Law of Moses, the books of [that were written by] the prophets, and the Psalms’ ” (Luke 24:44, ERV).

The book of Psalms is a collection of prayers and songs for Jews and Christians. The poets who wrote the Psalms wrote their prayers and songs to God. The poets wrote in their own words. But God gave the poets their ideas. So, the Book of Psalms comes from God. God talks to His people in its poems, the same as He does in the rest of the Bible (2 Peter 1:21). Jesus and the New Testament writers used quotes from the Psalms in their teachings. They taught that these poems were part of God’s Word, the Bible (Mark 12:10; John 10:34, 35; John 13:18). The Book of Psalms is part of God’s Word as much as any other book of the Bible.

Different poets wrote the Book of Psalms during Old Testament times. The poets wrote their poems in the Hebrew language. The poems tell us about the times when the poets lived. The Book of Psalms is for our time, too. When we accept the Book of Psalms as God’s Word to us, we can understand its messages. We must pay attention to the history and teachings in the Book of Psalms. We must study, too, how the Israelites used the songs for worship. Then we will understand better what God wants to tell us today.