---
title:  Songs For Worship In Old Testament Times
date:   31/12/2023
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why was the Book of Psalms written? When did God’s people use the Psalms? Read 1 Chronicles 16:7; Nehemiah 12:8; Psalm 18:1; Psalm 30:1; Psalm 92:1; Psalm 95:2; Psalm 105:2; Colossians 3:16; and James 5:13 for the answers.`

The Book of Psalms is a collection of poems. Different poets wrote the Book of Psalms. Their poems are also songs and prayers to God. The poets wrote their poems for both personal and public worship. The Israelites sang the poems as hymns to God in His temple. Many poets included short notes with their poems or songs. The notes told the music leaders (Psalm 8:1) which musical instruments they should play (Psalm 61:1) or the tune they should use when they sang the song (Psalm 9:1).

In the Hebrew language, the title of the Book of Psalms is “_tehelim_.” “_Tehelim_” means “praises.” “_Tehelim_” shows us an important reason the Psalms were written: to praise God. Our word “psalms” comes from the Septuagint. The Septuagint is a copy of the Old Testament written in the Greek language. The Septuagint was made 200 or 300 years before Jesus was born. In the Septuagint, the word for “psalms” is written as “_psalmoi_” in the Greek language.

The Book of Psalms was an important part of Israel’s worship. God’s people used it for temple celebrations, religious feasts, parades, and when the Ark of Promise came to Jerusalem. Psalms 120-134 were songs for going up to the temple. God’s people sang these songs on their way to Jerusalem to celebrate three big religious festivals each year (Exodus 23:14-17). The people sang Psalms 113-118 and Psalm 136 at the three festivals. They sang these songs at the New Moon festivals and when the leaders gave the temple to God. The people sang Psalms 113 and 114 at the start of the Passover meal, and Psalms 115-118 at the end (Matthew 26:30). The Passover was the time when God brought Israel out of Egypt. Psalms 145-150 were part of the morning prayers used for worship in the temple. The Psalms taught God’s people how to worship Him in His temple. Jesus prayed with the words from Psalm 22 (Matthew 27:46). The New Testament churches also taught and sang from the Book of Psalms, too (Colossians 3:16; Ephesians 5:19).

`How can we use the Book of Psalms in both our private and public worship today?`