---
title:  Meet The Poets Of The Book Of Psalms
date:   01/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

King David wrote most of the poems in the Book of Psalms. David is named “the sweet [the most pleasant] singer of Israel” (2 Samuel 23:1, ERV). David had an important part in selecting the songs for worship in the temple. New Testament writers also say that David wrote many poems in the Book of Psalms (Matthew 22:43-45; Acts 2:25-29, 34, 35; Acts 4:25; Romans 4:6-8). Temple musicians wrote some of the poems in the Book of Psalms, too. These temple musicians were also Levites: Asaph wrote Psalm 50 and Psalms 73-83. The sons of Korah wrote Psalm 42, Psalms 44-49; Psalm 84; Psalm 85; Psalm 87; and Psalm 88. Heman the Ezrahite also wrote Psalm 88. Ethan the Ezrahite wrote Psalm 89. Then there were the poems that Solomon and Moses wrote: Solomon wrote Psalm 72 and Psalm 127. Moses wrote Psalm 90.

`Read Psalm 25:1-5; Psalm 42:1; Psalm 75:1; Psalm 77:1; Psalm 84:1, 2; Psalm 88:1-3; and Psalm 89:1. What do these poems tell us about the poets who wrote them and their experiences?`

The Holy Spirit gave these poets their ideas. God used their talents to serve Him and His people. The poets were men with powerful faith and deep love for God. At the same time, the poets often felt the way we do. They felt hopeless. They fought against Satan’s lies and traps. Yes, the poets wrote their songs and poems a long time ago. But they talk about many of our same experiences:

“Please hear my prayer. Pay attention to my cry for help.

I have so many troubles/ I’m about to die” (Psalm 88:2, 3, NIrV).

Who doesn’t feel this way at times? For sure, someone from our time could have written this cry for help.

Some poems in the Book of Psalms are about joy. Other poems are about hard times. The poets are honest about their suffering. They cry to God for help, and He saves them. The poets praise God for His love. They promise to serve God forever. The Book of Psalms is a message about God’s saving love, mercy, and hope. The Book of Psalms is God’s promise to forgive us and give us new life.

`The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms suffered many things we suffer. How does this thought give you hope?`