---
title:  A Song For Every Part Of Our Lives
date:   02/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 3; Psalm 33:1-3; and Psalm 109:6-15. What human experiences do these songs talk about?`

The Book of Psalms is filled with songs about human experience. We see six types of songs: **1. Praise hymns** give glory to God because He is the King and keeps His promises. **2. Thanksgiving songs** thank God for His many blessings. **3. Laments** are songs about sorrow or sadness. Many laments are cries to God to save His people from trouble. **4. Wisdom songs** are filled with advice about how to live a holy life. **5. Royal songs** talk about God’s Chosen One, who is Israel’s future King and Savior. **6. History songs** talk about Israel’s past. They show us how God kept His promises to His people when they broke their promises to Him. History songs teach the future children of Israel to remember the past and not to make the same mistakes their fathers made.

These poems grab our attention. What writing skills did the poets use to make their poems so powerful?

**Word combinations:** Poets combined words with the same meaning: “My soul, praise the Lord! Every part of me, praise his holy name!” (Psalm 103:1, ERV). Do you see how the words “My soul” and “every part of me” are alike? The poet combines these same words together in the same verse to help us understand his idea better. Sometimes poets combined different words to do the same thing. “I cry out to you day and night” (Psalm 88:1, ICB). The words “day” and “night” show us the poet cries to God all the time.

**Word pictures:** Word pictures help us see, touch, smell, hear, or taste life. These pictures help us better understand the poem’s message. In Psalm 17:8, the poet compares God and the protection He gives us to a mother bird who “hides her young under her wings” (ERV).

**Double meanings:** Sometimes the poets used words that looked almost the same but had different meanings. In Psalm 96:4, 5, the poet uses two Hebrew words that look alike: “ _’elohim_,” which means “gods,” and “ _’elilim_,” which means “false gods” or “statues.” The poet uses these words to help us understand his message: The gods of the other people groups near Israel may look as if they are “ _’elohim_,” or gods. But they are only “ _’elilim_,” or statues.

**Selah:** Poets used the word “_selah_.” This word told the reader to stop and think about the poem’s message. Or “selah” alerted the musician to a change in the song.