---
title:  Prayers From God
date:   03/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 2 Samuel 23:1, 2 and Romans 8:26, 27. What do these verses teach us about prayer?`

The prayers and praises in the Book of Psalms are written to God. At the same time, these prayers and praises come from God. God gave the poets their ideas.

The poets talk to God personally. In their poems, God is “my God and King” (Psalm 5:2, ERV), and “Lord,” (Psalm 84:3, ERV). The poets often ask God to “listen to my words” (Psalm 5:1, ICB), “hear my prayer!” (Psalm 39:12, ERV), “look at my suffering and troubles” (Psalm 25:18, ICB), “answer me” (Psalm 102:2, ERV), and “save me” (Psalm 6:4, ERV). These words show us someone who is praying to God.

The Psalms are powerful and beautiful prayers. They are so powerful and beautiful because they are also God’s Word, the Bible. Paul tells us how prayer works: “Also the Spirit helps us because we are weak. We do not know how we should talk to God. But the Spirit himself talks to God for us, while we cry and cannot say any words. God looks to see what is in people’s hearts. And he knows what the Spirit is going to do. The Spirit talks to God for God’s people. And he asks for them what God wants them to have” (Romans 8:26, 27, WE). The prayers in the Book of Psalms help us to have this same experience with God that Paul talks about.

Jesus used quotes from the Book of Psalms when He taught and preached. In Luke 20:42, 43, Jesus uses this quote from Psalm 110:1: “ ‘David himself says in the Book of Psalms, “The Lord said to my lord, ‘Sit at my right hand [next to me] until I put your enemies under your control’ ” ’ ” (NIrV).

As we saw yesterday, some poems in the Book of Psalms are about Israel’s history. Many of the poets write about their own life experiences and the experiences of the Jewish people. As you read the Book of Psalms, you will see that the poems talk about hope, praise, fear, anger, and sadness. These things are feelings and experiences that people everywhere, and in every age, know and understand. The poems in the Book of Psalms are for every one of us because they are about our own experiences.

`How important is the Book of Psalms to our own faith experience? How does Jesus’ use of the Psalms help us answer that question?`