---
title:  God And His Holy Poets
date:   04/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How did the poets of the Book of Psalms feel about God? Read Psalm 16:8; Psalm 44:8; Psalm 46:1; Psalm 47:1, 7; Psalm 57:2; Psalm 62:8; Psalm 82:8; and Psalm 121:7 for the answer.`

God is the most important part of the poets’ lives in the Book of Psalms. The poets lived fully for God. Their poems, praises, and life experiences were about doing what God wanted. God made everything in the skies and on earth. God is the King and Judge of the whole earth, too. God gives His children everything they need. So, we can trust God all the time. When God’s people suffer, their enemies “are always saying, ‘Where is your God?’ ” (Psalm 42:10, ICB). God’s people know the answer. God is always with them. He can’t fail His people. So, His people can always trust in Him. The Book of Psalms teaches us that all people will worship God in the future (Psalm 47:1; Psalm 64:9).

The idea that God is the most important part of our lives makes Him the most important part of worship, too. Worship in Old Testament times was different from worship as many people understand it today. Worship in Old Testament times was the most important part of people’s lives. So, the poets wrote about everything that happened, both good and bad, in their songs of worship and praise. God hears the poets wherever He may be. He answers them in His perfect time (Psalm 3:4; Psalm 18:6; Psalm 20:6).

The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms understood that God could be or do things that no human can be or do. God can live in heaven, and at the same time, He can live with His people on earth. God can be far away and near at the same time. God can be everywhere and, at the same time, in His temple (Psalm 11:4). God can be hidden (Psalm 10:1) and, at the same time, with us forever (Psalm 41:12). These things are not possible for humans. But these things are possible for God (Psalm 24:7-10). The poets also understood that God was good. God was with the poets in every experience. This knowledge gave them hope while they waited for God to save them.

`Can we limit God to only some parts of our lives? How does the Book of Psalms help us answer this question? Are you trying to keep God away from some parts of your life? If yes, what are those parts of your life?`