---
title:  Additional thought
date:   05/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Temple and Its Dedication,” pages 35-50, in _Prophets and Kings_; and “The Benefits of Music,” pages 291, 292, in _Messages to Young People_.

The Book of Psalms includes 150 poems. These poems can be grouped into five books: Book 1 (Psalms 1-41), Book 2 (Psalms 42-72), Book 3 (Psalms 73-89), Book 4 (Psalm 90-106), and Book 5 (Psalms 107-150).

The Book of Psalms borrowed poems from other collections of Hebrew poems and songs: from the sons of Korah (Psalms 42-49, Psalm 84, Psalm 85, Psalm 87, Psalm 88), from Asaph (Psalms 73-83), the Songs for Going Up to the Temple (Psalms 120-134), and the Praise Songs (Psalms 111-118; Psalms 146-150). Psalm 72:20 tells us about a small collection of poems that King David wrote.

Most poems in the Book of Psalms were written in the time of King David (1,000 b.c.). The collection of poems and songs continued to grow after King David died. After the new temple was built, many people believe that Ezra ordered the servants of God to put the different collections of Hebrew songs and poems together in one book.

God led these holy men in their work. God showed them which poems to include in the Book of Psalms. We can see both God’s wisdom and man’s skill in the making of the Book of Psalms. This combination of God and man joining together helps us understand better how Jesus, who was God, became one of us. “Bible truth comes from God. Men write God’s ideas in human language. So, the Bible is an example of God and humans joining together. We see this same thing in Jesus. Jesus was the Son of God and the Son of Man. What the Bible says about Jesus we also can say about the Bible. Both the Bible and Jesus ‘became human flesh and lived among us’ [John 1:14, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_, page 8, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Together, God and humans made the poems in the Book of Psalms. How does this idea help us understand that God wants to be very close to His people?`

`In class, talk about how the Book of Psalms helped you during a time of suffering. What hope did the Book of Psalms give you at that time?`