---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/06/2019
---

Ellen G. White, “In the Court of Babylon,” pp. 479–490, in Prophets and Kings; “Words of Caution,” pp. 324, 329; “No Respect of Persons With God,” pp. 330, 331, in Gospel Workers; “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pp. 115–126, in Steps to Christ.

No respect of persons with God. “The religion of Christ uplifts the receiver to a higher plane of thought and action, while at the same time it presents the whole human race as alike the objects of the love of God, being purchased by the sacrifice of His Son. At the feet of Jesus, the rich and the poor, the learned and the ignorant, meet together, with no thought of caste or worldly preeminence. All earthly distinctions are forgotten as we look upon Him whom our sins have pierced. The self-denial, the condescension, the infinite compassion of Him who was highly exalted in heaven, puts to shame human pride, self-esteem, and social caste. Pure, undefiled religion manifests its heaven-born principles in bringing into oneness all who are sanctified through the truth. All meet as blood-bought souls, alike dependent upon Him who has redeemed them to God.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, p. 330.

**Discussion Questions:**

`As a class, discuss your answers to Sunday’s study.`

`What principles can we find in the Ellen G. White quote above that, if applied, would revolutionize our family lives?`

`How well has your local church done in nurturing the younger generation of believers? What can you as a class do to help the church in this important task?`

`What are the challenges of trying to pass on faith to another generation?`

`In what ways does the culture you live in impact your family life for good, and in what ways does it impact it for evil?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Prophets and Kings_, “In the Court of Babylon,” pp. 479–490;

_Steps to Christ_, “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pp. 115–126.