---
title:  The Choices We Make
date:  06/04/2019
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Eph. 1:1–4; Matt. 22:35–37; 7:24, 25; Prov. 18:24; 1 Cor. 15:33; Eccles. 2:1–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “And if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord” (Joshua 24:15, NKJV).

Ever notice that life is full of choices? In fact, one could argue that in many ways, what we do all day, from the moment we get up until we go to bed, is make choices. We make so many choices that often we don’t even think about them. We just make them.

Some choices are simple and even become routine, while others are life-changing and have eternal consequences, not only for us but even for our own families.

Hence, how crucial that we think through our choices, especially the big ones, the ones that can impact us and our families for the rest of not only our own lives but our family members’ lives, as well.

How many of us, to this day, regret choices we have made? How many, to this day, live with the wreckage from wrong choices made long ago? Fortunately, there is forgiveness. There is redemption, and there is healing, even for the worst of decisions.

This week, we will look in a very broad way at the question of the choices we make, how we should make them, and what impact these choices can have on ourselves and our families.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 13._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The will is the governing power in the nature of man, the power of decision, or choice. Every human being possessed of reason has power to choose the right. In every experience of life, God’s word to us is, “Choose you this day whom ye will serve.” Joshua 24:15. Everyone may place his will on the side of the will of God, may choose to obey Him, and by thus linking himself with divine agencies, he may stand where nothing can force him to do evil.—_Education_, p. 289. 

In our world there are two classes. One is made up of those who behold a crucified and risen Saviour. The other includes all who have chosen to look away from the cross, and to follow the leadings of satanic influences. The latter class are busily engaged in putting stumbling blocks before God’s people, to cause them to fall, and turn from the path of obedience into the broad way of disobedience and death. . . . 

It is time for every one of us to decide whose side we are on. The agencies of Satan will work with every mind that will allow itself to be worked by him. But there are also heavenly agencies waiting to communicate the bright rays of the glory of God to all who are willing to receive Him. 

It is ours to choose whether we will be numbered with the servants of Christ or the servants of Satan. Every day we show by our conduct whose service we have chosen.—_Our High Calling_, p. 15. 

We sometimes blunder, but if we see and confess our errors, God is just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Our failures should not discourage us, but should be turned into victories. It is your privilege to choose this day whom you will serve. . . .

You have within your reach more than finite possibilities. If you link yourself with God, turning to Him with full decision of soul, He will accept the prodigal. . . .

Make your decision for time and for eternity. Let not any human agent cheat you out of your soul. No one can pay a ransom for your soul. Jesus has done that. Will you be indifferent to such love? . . . Again I say, “Come.” Jesus invites [you]; all heaven says, “Come.”—_The Upward Look_, p. 345. 

The history of nations speaks to us today. To every nation and to every individual God has assigned a place in His great plan. Today men and nations are being tested by the plummet in the hand of Him who makes no mistake. All are by their own choice deciding their destiny.—_Prophets and Kings_, p. 536. 