---
title:  Free Will, Free Choice
date:  07/04/2019
---

Some Christians believe that God has chosen, even before a person was born, whether or not that person will be saved. That is, those who in the end are lost eternally are lost because God, in His wisdom (this theology claims), made that choice for this person to be lost. Which means, then, that regardless of their choices, that person will be condemned. Fortunately, as Seventh-day Adventists, we don’t ascribe to that theology.

Instead, we believe that God has chosen for all of us to be saved—and that even before the world began, we were chosen in Him to have eternal life.

`Read Ephesians 1:1–4; Titus 1:1, 2; and 2 Timothy 1:8, 9. What do these verses tell us about being chosen by God and when we were chosen?`

However good this news, some people will still be lost (Matt. 25:41). And that’s because, though God has chosen us all, He has given humans a most sacred gift, and that is free will, free choice.

`What does Matthew 22:35–37 teach about free will?`

The Lord does not force us to love Him. Love, in order to be love, has to be freely given. In many ways, one could argue that the Bible is the story of God reaching out to lost human beings and seeking, without coercion, to win their hearts to Himself. This reality can best be seen in the life and ministry of Jesus, and how people—using their free will— reacted to Him. Some were drawn to Him; others wanted Him dead.

Yes, God has chosen us for salvation, but, in the end, we have to make the choice to accept that salvation. There is no question that of all the choices we have to make, the choice to serve the Lord is, by far, the most consequential for us and for those who are impacted (such as our immediate family) by our life and the choices that we make in it.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Each actor in history stands in his lot and place; for God’s great work after His own plan will be carried out by men who have prepared themselves to fill positions for good or evil. In opposition to righteousness, men become instruments of unrighteousness. But they are not forced to take this course of action. They need not become instruments of unrighteousness, any more than Cain needed to.

Men act out their own free will, either in accordance with a character placed under the molding of God or a character placed under the harsh rule of Satan.—_The Faith I Live By_, p. 155. 

We are God’s workmanship, and His Word declares that we are “fearfully and wonderfully made.” He has prepared this living habitation for the mind; it is “curiously wrought,” a temple which the Lord Himself has fitted up for the indwelling of His Holy Spirit. The mind controls the whole man. All our actions, good or bad, have their source in the mind. It is the mind that worships God and allies us to heavenly beings. Yet many spend all their lives without becoming intelligent in regard to [the human body] that contains this treasure.—_Child Guidance_, p. 360.

What you need to understand is the true force of the will. This is the governing power in the nature of man, the power of decision, or of choice. Everything depends on the right action of the will. The power of choice God has given to men; it is theirs to exercise. You cannot change your heart, you cannot of yourself give to God its affections; but you can choose to serve Him. You can give Him your will; He will then work in you to will and to do according to His good pleasure. Thus your whole nature will be brought under the control of the Spirit of Christ; your affections will be centered upon Him, your thoughts will be in harmony with Him. 

Desires for goodness and holiness are right as far as they go; but if you stop here, they will avail nothing. Many will be lost while hoping and desiring to be Christians. They do not come to the point of yielding the will to God. They do not now choose to be Christians.—_Steps to Christ_, pp. 47, 48. 

The law of love is the foundation of God’s government, and the service of love the only service acceptable to Heaven. God has granted freedom of will to all, endowed men with capacity to appreciate His character, and therefore with ability to love Him and to choose His service. So long as created beings worshiped God they were in harmony throughout the universe. While love to God was supreme, love to others abounded. As there was no transgression of the law, which is the transcript of God’s character, no note of discord jarred the celestial harmonies.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 366. 