---
title:  Making the Right Choices
date:  08/04/2019
---

We all know very well the importance of the choices we make. And we all know, too, how wrong choices can very negatively impact our lives and the lives of others. The question is, How can we know how to make the right choices?

`The following verses give us some general steps that can help us in our quest to make the right decisions. What are these steps?`

`1. 1 Thess. 5:17, James 1:5`

`2. Isa. 1:19; Matt. 7:24, 25`

`3. Ps. 119:105, 2 Tim. 3:16`

`4. Prov. 3:5, 6; Isa. 58:11`

`5. Prov. 15:22, 24:6`

In every important decision we make, how crucial that we go to the Lord in prayer, that we make sure our choice will not lead us to violate God’s law in any way—or even the principles in His Word. How crucial that we trust in God, that we surrender our choice to Him; that is, we must pray that the choices we make will glorify Him and that we are ready to surrender our own desires if they go against His plan for our lives. Many times, too, wise counselors can be a great help as we seek to make choices. In the end, we can have great assurance knowing that God loves and wants what’s best for us, and that if we in faith and humility surrender our lives to Him, we can move ahead in faith on the choices we make.

`How do you go about making big choices in your life? What, if any, spiritual steps do you take in seeking to make these choices?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In a life wholly devoted to the good of others, the Saviour found it necessary to withdraw from the thoroughfares of travel and from the throng that followed Him day after day. He must turn aside from a life of ceaseless activity and contact with human needs, to seek retirement and unbroken communion with His Father. As one with us, a sharer in our needs and weaknesses, He was wholly dependent upon God, and in the secret place of prayer He sought divine strength, that He might go forth braced for duty and trial. In a world of sin Jesus endured struggles and torture of soul. In communion with God He could unburden the sorrows that were crushing Him. Here He found comfort and joy.

In Christ the cry of humanity reached the Father of infinite pity. As a man He supplicated the throne of God till His humanity was charged with a heavenly current that should connect humanity with divinity. Through continual communion He received life from God, that He might impart life to the world. His experience is to be ours.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 362, 363.

When God is not thought of and reverenced, when He is not chosen as . . . counselor and [as a] strong tower of defense, how soon secular thoughts and wicked unbelief come in, and vain confidence and philosophy take the place of humble, trusting faith. Often temptations are cherished as the voice of the True Shepherd because men have separated themselves from Jesus. They cannot be safe a moment unless right principles are cherished in the heart and carried into every business transaction. 

“If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.” Such a promise is of more value than gold or silver. If with a humble heart you seek divine guidance in every trouble and perplexity, His word is pledged that a gracious answer will be given you. And His word can never fail. Heaven and earth may pass away, but His word will never pass away. Trust in the Lord, and you will never be confounded or ashamed. “It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes.”—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, pp. 426, 427.

We see in the Word, warnings and promises, with God behind them all. We are invited to search this Word for aid when brought into difficult places. If we do not consult the Guidebook at every step, inquiring, Is this the way of the Lord? our words and acts will be tainted by selfishness. We shall forget God, and walk in paths that He has not chosen for us.  

God’s Word is full of precious promises and helpful counsel. It is infallible; for God cannot err. It has help for every circumstance and condition of life, and God looks on with sadness when His children turn from it to human aid.—_My Life Today_, p. 27. 