---
title:  Choosing a Life Partner
date:  10/04/2019
---

If you’re supposed to choose your friends carefully, you must be even more careful when it comes to choosing your future spouse. Adam was very blessed that God designed his life companion with His own hands and from within himself. Adam’s choice was easy since Eve was not just the only woman, but the perfect woman. The rest of us have a more difficult time, since none of us is perfect and we have many more people to choose from.

Because this decision is so important, God has not left us without guidance in this area of our lives. Besides all the important steps we looked at in Monday’s study, there are some more specific steps to follow in considering the question of marriage (we will look at the whole question of marriage more carefully in lesson 6). Indeed, outside of the choice to serve the Lord, the question of a spouse will almost always be the most consequential choice anyone makes in their lives.

`What very general guidance is found in the following texts that could and should be applied to someone seeking the right partner in marriage? Ps. 37:27, Ps. 119:97, 1 Cor. 15:33, James 1:23–25.`

Besides looking for the right person to marry, be the right person first. “ ‘Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets’ ” (Matt. 7:12, NKJV). Someone could find a great potential spouse who has all the qualities one would want, but if the one who wants good qualities in the other lacks them himself or herself, problems will arise.

This is not new—and is certainly seen not only in marriage but in life in general. Paul spends a great deal of time in the opening of Romans talking to those who condemn others for doing what they, the ones condemning, also are guilty of. Or, as Jesus said: “ ‘And why do you look at the speck in your brother’s eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye?’ ” (Matt. 7:3, NKJV).

`How often do you find yourself wishing others (your spouse, perhaps) had traits that, in fact, you lack yourself? Think about it.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

One of the greatest dangers that besets the people of God today, is that of association with the ungodly; especially in uniting themselves in marriage with unbelievers. With many, the love for the human eclipses the love for the divine. They take the first step in backsliding by venturing to disregard the Lord’s express command; and complete apostasy is too often the result. It has ever proved a dangerous thing for men to carry out their own will in opposition to the requirements of God. Yet it is a hard lesson for men to learn that God means what He says.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 2, p. 1000. 

If there is any subject that should be considered with calm reason and unimpassioned judgment, it is the subject of marriage. If ever the Bible is needed as a counselor, it is before taking a step that binds persons together for life. But the prevailing sentiment is that in this matter the feelings are to be the guide; and in too many cases lovesick sentimentalism takes the helm, and guides to certain ruin. . . . The question of marriage seems to have a bewitching power over [the young]. They do not submit themselves to God. Their senses are enchained, and they move forward in secretiveness, as if fearful that their plans would be interfered with by some one.

 . . . On this rock thousands have made shipwreck of their souls. Professed Christians, whose lives are marked with integrity, and who seem sensible upon every other subject, make fearful mistakes here. They manifest a set, determined will that reason cannot change. They become so fascinated with human feelings and impulses that they have no desire to search the Bible and come into close relationship with God.—_Fundamentals of Christian Education_, p. 103.

Our Saviour’s Sermon on the Mount contains instruction of priceless worth to old and young. It should be often read in the family circle and its precious teachings exemplified in the daily life. The golden rule, “Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them,” as well as the apostolic injunction, “In honour preferring one another,” should be made the law of the family. Those who cherish the spirit of Christ will manifest politeness at home, a spirit of benevolence even in little things. They will be constantly seeking to make all around them happy, forgetting self in their kind attentions to others. This is the fruit which grows upon the Christian tree. 

The golden rule is the principle of true courtesy, and its truest illustration is seen in the life and character of Jesus. Oh, what rays of softness and beauty shone forth in the daily life of our Saviour! What sweetness flowed from His very presence! The same spirit will be revealed in His children. Those with whom Christ dwells will be surrounded with a divine atmosphere. Their white robes of purity will be fragrant with perfume from the garden of the Lord. Their faces will reflect light from His, brightening the path for stumbling and weary feet.—_The Adventist Home_, pp. 423, 424. 