---
title:  Choosing a Course
date:  11/04/2019
---

At some point, we have to make the choice about what we want to do with our lives in terms of a job or career. Unless independently wealthy or working full-time at home taking care of the house and family (the most noble of all occupations), many people have to choose a path as far as earning a living goes.

Of course, we all exist in certain circumstances that can, to a great degree, limit our choices regarding a career. But within whatever sphere we exist, we can make choices regarding our occupation that, especially in the context of knowing that we have salvation in Jesus Christ, can give our lives added meaning and purpose. In short, whatever we do, we can do for the glory of God.

`What mistake did Solomon make, and how can we be careful not to do something similar? Eccles. 2:1–11.`

We don’t need to be rich to get caught up in the same trap that Solomon did. “For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows” (1 Tim. 6:10, NKJV). One can be poor and love money just as much as someone does who is rich.

Yes, we need to earn a living, but regardless of what we do or how much we make, we need not make the pursuit of wealth an idol. Many families, too, have suffered because of a father who, obsessed with making money, neglected the family in order to try to get rich. How many children, or spouses, would have preferred a humbler lifestyle over an impoverished relationship with the father? In most cases, people would have preferred the former over the latter.

From Creation, God planned for work to be part of life (Gen. 2:15). The danger is when we make our work the center of our life, or it becomes a means of solely acquiring wealth for ourselves. This is the mistake Solomon made. He was searching for meaning in those projects, and even though many brought him a degree of satisfaction, at the end he figured out that they were meaningless.

`Someone once asked: “How many people, at the end of their lives, wished they had spent more time in the office and less time with their family?” What’s the important message in this question?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It was the design of God that man should find happiness in the employment of tending the things He had created, and that his wants should be met with the fruits of the trees of the garden. 

To Adam was given the work of caring for the garden. The Creator knew that Adam could not be happy without employment. The beauty of the garden delighted him, but this was not enough. He must have labor to call into exercise the wonderful organs of the body. Had happiness consisted in doing nothing, man, in his state of holy innocence, would have been left unemployed. But He who created man knew what would be for his happiness; and no sooner had He created him than He gave him his appointed work. The promise of future glory, and the decree that man must toil for his daily bread, came from the same throne.—_The Adventist Home_, p. 27. 

We need schools in this country to educate children and youth that they may be masters of labor, and not slaves of labor. . . . Let the worker see what advantage he may gain in the humblest occupation, by using the ability God has given him as an endowment. Thus he can become an educator, teaching others the art of doing work intelligently. He may understand what it means to love God with the heart, the soul, the mind, and the strength. The physical powers are to be brought into service from love to God. The Lord wants the physical strength, and you can reveal your love for Him by the right use of your physical powers, doing the very work which needs to be done. There is no respect of persons with God. . . .

There is in the world a great deal of hard, taxing work to be done, and he who labors without exercising the God-given powers of mind and heart and soul, he who employs the physical strength alone, makes the work a wearisome tax and burden. There are men with mind, heart, and soul who regard work as a drudgery, and settle down to it with self-complacent ignorance, delving without thought, without taxing the mental capabilities in order to do the work better. 

There is science in the humblest kind of work, and if all would thus regard it, they would see nobility in labor. Heart and soul are to be put into work of any kind; then there is cheerfulness and efficiency. . . . There is honor in any class of work that is essential to be done. Let the law of God be made the standard of action, and it ennobles and sanctifies all labor. Faithfulness in the discharge of every duty makes the work noble, and reveals a character that God can approve.—_Fundamentals of Christian Education_, pp. 314, 315.

By his own bitter experience, Solomon learned the emptiness of a life that seeks in earthly things its highest good. He erected altars to heathen gods, only to learn how vain is their promise of rest to the spirit. Gloomy and soul-harassing thoughts troubled him night and day. For him there was no longer any joy of life or peace of mind, and the future was dark with despair.

Yet the Lord forsook him not. By messages of reproof and by severe judgments, He sought to arouse the king to a realization of the sinfulness of his course. 

 . . . Solomon with quickened conscience began to see his folly in its true light. Chastened in spirit, with mind and body enfeebled, he turned wearied and thirsting from earth’s broken cisterns, to drink once more at the fountain of life. . . . He could never hope to escape the blasting results of sin; he could never free his mind from all remembrance of the self-indulgent course he had been pursuing; but he would endeavor earnestly to dissuade others from following after folly.—_Conflict and Courage_, p. 196. 