---
title:  The Holy Spirit and the Church
date:   25/02/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit and the Church

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
Ephesians 1:22, 23; 1 Corinthians 12:13; Romans 6:3–7; Acts 17:11; Ephesians 4:5, 6; Acts 2:4–11. 

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “The Holy Spirit makes you one in every way. So try your best to remain as one. Let peace keep you together. There is one body. There is one Spirit. You were appointed to [established in; set up for] one hope when you were chosen. There is one Lord. There is one faith and one baptism” (Ephesians 4:3–5, NIrV).

SOMETIMES WE THINK THE HOLY SPIRIT works in the life of only one person at a time. Yes, the Holy Spirit does work in individual lives. And these believers are the foundation of a spiritual community. But the Holy Spirit also is responsible for the life of the church of Christ. 

We often think that the church lives and grows because of what we do for God. But the church is alive because of what God has already done for us through the Holy Spirit. And the church is alive because of what God continues to do through His Spirit. 

The Holy Spirit creates a spiritual community and fellowship in the church. The foundation of the church’s authority is the Bible. But the Holy Spirit inspired (led) men to write the Bible. And that same Spirit leads men to live their lives by the Bible. The Bible is the foundation for the oneness of faith in the church. There would not be a church without the work of the Spirit. Without the Spirit, the church could not spread the good news to the world. 
