---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES US ONE WITH CHRIST
date:   26/02/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES US ONE WITH CHRIST 

(1 Peter 2:6, 7)

The Holy Spirit makes us one in many ways. The Holy Spirit first makes us one with Christ. That oneness is the reason why there is a church. Christ, then, is the Head of the church (read Ephesians 1:22, 23 and Ephesians 5:23). And the Holy Spirit helps us to be joined as one to Christ Himself. 

Being one with Christ is the beginning of all the blessings of salvation. This is because all we have in the Lord comes from the Holy Spirit. For one, our oneness with Christ makes us the sons and daughters of God. For another, our cleansing and forgiveness come from being one with Jesus. And being one with Him makes us holy. It gives us the power over sin. 

Our bodies and our natures will go through a change at the Second Coming. This change will be a result of our being one with Christ. So, Jesus must be the foundation to our whole Christian experience. 

`Read Ephesians 2:18, 20–22 and 1 Peter 2:6, 7. What do these verses tell us about the work of Christ and the Holy Spirit in creating the church?` 

Through the Spirit, we can come to God the Father. And Jesus is the Rock. He is the foundation of our salvation. All other parts of the church are built on Him. 

The work of the Spirit in individual lives leads to building a community of faith known as the church. First, we experience salvation through faith in Christ Jesus alone. Next, the love of God touches our hearts. Then there is a sweet “sharing of life brought about by the Holy Spirit” (2 Corinthians 13:14, NIrV) in the church. 

Individual believers are like building blocks. God uses them to build a new church “through his Spirit” (Ephesians 2:22, NIrV). So, as followers of Christ, we should “try [our] best to remain as one. Let peace keep [us] together” (Ephesians 4:3, NIrV). In every way possible, we need to try to be one with other believers. Of course, being one with other believers does not mean we are to accept false ideas about the truth.

`Read Colossians 3:12–14. In these verses, how should a Christian treat others? How can acting this way help there to be oneness in the church? Why is treating others this way so important to there being oneness in the church?`