---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES US ONE THROUGH BAPTISM
date:   27/02/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES US ONE THROUGH BAPTISM

(1 Corinthians 12:13)

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:13. In this verse, how does baptism make us one with Christ and with the Spirit?`

The Holy Spirit makes us one body (church) of believers. We enter into Christ’s spiritual kingdom through baptism. The followers of Christ cannot do God’s work alone. God created the church for this purpose. To follow Christ means to share the life of other believers in the church. For this reason, baptism is public. It shows we have chosen to follow Christ and share in the life of the church.

`Read Romans 6:3–7. In these verses, what is baptism a symbol of?`

Baptism is the act of being buried with Jesus Christ in death in the watery grave. And it is being raised from the water to new life in fellowship with Jesus, our Lord and Savior.

“Baptism is a very serious act of giving up the world. Baptism is a symbol that we are dead to a life of sin. The waters cover the believer. Baptism is a pledge to live a new life in Christ. This pledge is made before all of heaven and the whole universe. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, a person is laid into his or her watery grave. He or she is buried with Christ in baptism. Then he or she is raised from the water to live the new life of faithful obedience to God.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1074. 

Baptism is a positive step in our walk of faith. All must be baptized who wish to be God’s and who wish to live under the authority of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. In other words, baptism is a sign of true repentance (turning away from sin). It is a true sign of the death of self to the old life of sin. It is a sign of change to a better way of life in Christ. In other words, baptism is a sign that we have made a covenant (agreement) with God. We, as believers, promise to be faithful to God and His commandments. And God promises that we can depend on His help whenever we need it. 

`Have you decided to be baptized? If not, what stops you from following Christ in baptism? Have you been baptized? What difference has baptism made in your spiritual walk with Jesus?`