---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES THE CHURCH ONE THROUGH THE BIBLE
date:   28/02/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES THE CHURCH ONE THROUGH THE BIBLE

(Acts 17:11)

`Read Acts 17:11. Also read John 5:39, 46, 47 and John 8:31, 32. What is a sign of a true disciple of Christ? Why is the Bible so important in pointing us to Christ? How does the Bible help us to follow Him faithfully?` 

The Holy Spirit makes us one with Christ through the Written Word (the Bible) of God. The Bible is a trustworthy source for knowing Jesus and the will (plan) of God. So, reading the Bible and memorizing verses is very important. After all, the Bible is God’s Word just for us. It helps us, then, to tell the difference between spiritual truth and error. For example, Paul praised the Bereans (Acts 17:11). Paul said they were noble (good) people because they studied and searched the Bible. And they searched the Bible to find out if what they heard was true. 

So, new life in the church and all change for the better must be based on the Bible. This is because the Bible is the foundation on which our faith is built. And our love of Jesus and our love for His Written Word ties us together as one. 

`Read John 17:17–21. Jesus speaks in these verses about being one in faith. He says that when people are one in faith, it acts as a special sign to show who His followers are. According to John 17:17, what is the cause for this oneness of faith among believers?`

The Word of God is truth (John 17:17; Psalm 119:160). And the oneness of faith in the church is the work of the Spirit with and through the Written Word of God. The Holy Spirit will never lead us to doubt, criticize, leave, or fall short of Bible teaching. Instead, He helps us appreciate the divine authority of the Bible. The Holy Spirit never draws us away from the Written Word or from the Living Word (Jesus). Instead, the Spirit always fills us with the desire to obey both Jesus and the Bible. 

The Bible is the source of our beliefs worldwide. Suppose we weakened our belief in the Bible as God’s Word of truth to us. What would the result be? The answer is that the oneness of the church would be destroyed. 

`How much time do you spend reading the Bible? More important, how can you learn to fully obey its teachings?`