---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT JOINS THE CHURCH TOGETHER AS ONE IN ITS WORK FOR GOD
date:   02/03/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT JOINS THE CHURCH TOGETHER AS ONE IN ITS WORK FOR GOD

(Acts 2:16–21)

`Read Acts 2:4–11, 16–21. In these verses, the Holy Spirit was poured out on the New Testament believers. What was the result of that outpouring?`

The Holy Spirit was responsible for the most powerful outreach in history. This story shows that God can do more through a small group that is joined as one in their love for Him than He can do through a large group of people with divided hearts. But God can do even greater things when we all have given our lives, our strength, our talents, and all that we own and have to Him. 

The New Testament church grew as a result of the oneness of believers. They were one in faith, life, and in service to God. At first, the group of believers was small and afraid. But God changed them into a powerful army. In this way, they reached people from many different cultures and languages. And they were one in telling others about “ ‘God’s wonders’ ” (Acts 2:11, NIrV). 

The same God who worked in New Testament times will be working at the end of time. However, the work needs to be finished before He comes again.

`Read Acts 2:42–47. In these verses, in what other ways did the New Testament believers stand together as one?` 

The early church stood as one for a number of reasons. First, they were one in Bible study. They gave themselves fully to learning and following the apostles’ (teachers and leaders) teaching (Acts 2:42). Second, they were one in church life. Third, they shared meals together, which may mean they were one in worship (Acts 2:42). Fourth, they were one in prayer (Acts 2:42). Fifth, they were one in praising God (Acts 2:47). Sixth, they were one in serving those in need. And seventh, they freely shared what they owned with one another (Acts 2:44, 45). So, we must study the Bible together and come together as a church. Then we will desire to share the good news with others and to help them. The Holy Spirit will open our eyes to the needs of those around us. 

`What are some of the services or works done for God in your local church? How do these things help to show the oneness of your church? What more could be done?`
