---
title:  The Samaritans Are Witnesses for Jesus
date:   26/10/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 4:1–4; John 4:7–15; Ezekiel 36:25–27; John 4:16–24; John 4:27–29.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The people said to the woman, ‘First we believed in Jesus because of what you told us. But now we believe because we heard him ourselves. We know now that he really is the one who will save the world’ ” (John 4:42, ERV).

Who were the Samaritans? In 722 B.C., the Assyrians took Jews away from the Northern Kingdom of Israel. The Assyrians made the Jews prisoners. The Assyrians forced the Israelites to live in different parts of their kingdom. The Assyrians also took prisoners from other countries to live in the Northern Kingdom. These people became known as the Samaritans. The Samaritans followed the Jewish religion but added some of their own beliefs. Those beliefs became mixed up.

The Jews and Samaritans did not have a good relationship. The Samaritans worked against the Jews when the Jews built their temple again after they came back to Jerusalem from Babylon to build their temple again. The Samaritans built their own temple on Mount Gerizim. But John Hyrcanus, a Jewish leader, destroyed this temple in 128 B.C.

The Jews and Samaritans continued to have a bad relationship when Jesus started to preach and teach. The Jews avoided Samaria as much as possible. Yes, the Jews and Samaritans bought and sold from each other. But that was all they did. The Jews and Samaritans did not help each other. During this time, Jesus meets with the woman at the well in the city of Sychar, a city in Samaria.