---
title:  The City Of Sychar
date:   27/10/2024
---

`What problem caused Jesus to travel through Samaria? Read John 4:1–4 for the answer.`

The Pharisees, or Jewish spiritual leaders, learned that Jesus’ followers were baptizing more people than the followers of John the Baptist. Some of John’s followers got upset. John’s fol­lowers cared what people thought about their master (compare with John 3:26–30). John said that Jesus must become more important while he, John, must become less important (John 3:30). Jesus wanted to avoid any problems between His fol­lowers and John’s at this time. So, Jesus left Judea to go to Galilee. To save time, Jesus traveled through Samaria to get to Galilee. There were other ways to get to Galilee without going through Samaria. But these routes took longer. Most Jews would take the long way. They would go east through Perea and travel around Samaria. But Jesus wanted to preach in Samaria.

`Read the story in John 4:5–9. How did Jesus use what happened in this story to start a conversation with the woman at the well?`

Jacob’s well was near Shechem. Sychar, where the woman was from, was about a mile away (1.5 kilometers). Jesus sat next to the well while His followers went into the city to buy food. Jesus didn’t have any way to get the cool water from the well. When the woman came to get water, Jesus asked her for a drink.

When we read John 3, we were surprised when Nicodemus, a Jewish leader and teacher, lowers himself to come to Jesus. Nicodemus comes at night so that no one will see him. In John 4, the woman comes during the hottest part of the day when the sun shines brightest. Why did the woman do that? Maybe the woman wanted to avoid contact with other women. Most women came to the well at the beginning or the end of the day, when it was cooler. Why else would this woman go so far away from home to get water in the middle of the day when it was hot? Whatever the reason for her being there, her meeting with Jesus changed her life for the better.