---
title:  The Woman At The Well
date:   28/10/2024
---

`Read about the meeting in John 4:7–15. How does Jesus use this meeting to share Bible truth with this woman?`

“The hatred between Jews and Samaritans stopped the woman from offering help to Jesus. But the Savior was searching for a way to touch this woman’s heart. God’s love filled His heart and gave Him wisdom. Jesus asked her for a favor. If Jesus offered to help the woman, she may have rejected His offer. But when we show people we trust them, our trust in them helps them to trust in us.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 184, adapted.

Jesus knew what was in Nicodemus’s heart. In the same way, He knows what is in the heart of the woman. The woman is surprised that Jesus asks her for a favor. Jesus is a Jew, and she is a Samaritan. Remember, Jews and Samaritans did not help each other. Jesus answered, “ ‘You don’t know what God can give you. And you don’t know who I am, the one who asked you for a drink. If you knew, you would have asked me, and I would have given you living water’ ” (John 4:10, ERV).

The woman’s answer is much the same as Nicodemus’s answer. “Nicodemus asked, ‘How is all this [being born again] possible?’ ” (John 3:9, ERV). The woman said to Him, “ ‘Sir, the well is deep. You have nothing to get water with. Where will You get the living water?’ ” (John 4:11, NLV). In these two stories, Jesus gives Nicodemus and the Samaritan woman the important spiritual truths they needed to hear and understand. Jesus tells the Jewish teacher and the Samaritan woman the same thing: they need a new heart.

`What does the Old Testament say about living water? Read Jeremiah 2:13 and Zechariah 14:8 for the answer.`

We need water to live. We can’t live without water. So, water is a powerful symbol of everlasting life, too. That’s why Jesus says, “ ‘Whoever drinks the water that I will give him will never be thirsty. The water that I will give him will become in him a well of life that lasts [continues] forever’ ” (John 4:14, NLV).

`Read John 7:37, 38. What is Jesus telling us in these verses? How do we experience what He promises?`