---
title:  “ ‘Sir, Give Me This Water’ ”
date:   29/10/2024
---

“ ‘Then I will put clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will make you clean from all your unclean ways and from all your false gods. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take away your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to follow My Laws and be careful to do what I tell you’ ” (Ezekiel 36:25–27, NLV).

`Read Ezekiel 36:25–27. How do these verses show the important spiri­tual truths that Jesus wanted to teach Nicodemus and the woman at the well?`

In both stories, Jesus wanted to help these people understand spiritual truths. Jesus uses examples from nature to touch their hearts.

Nicodemus and the woman at the well don’t understand what Jesus means at first. How, asked Nicodemus, can a man be born again? How can he go back inside his mother’s belly? Nicodemus thought Jesus was talking about the body. But Jesus was talking about being born again in a spiritual way. The woman also thought Jesus was talking about real water when Jesus was talking about spiritual water.

Look at the woman’s answer to Jesus’ offer of living water. “The woman said to Jesus, ‘Sir, give me this water. Then I will never be thirsty again and won’t have to come back here to get more water’ ” (John 4:15, ERV). The woman felt that the water Jesus offered would end her need to walk to the well. Then other people wouldn’t see her. Look at how fast the conversation moves from Jesus’ asking for a drink to the woman’s asking Him for one?

`Read John 4:16. How did Jesus answer the woman?`

Jesus changes the topic of conversation. He asks the woman to go get her husband. Why does Jesus change the topic so fast? The woman’s behavior showed Jesus that she avoided the spiritual truth He wanted to give her. Jesus read her heart. The woman must confess her sin before she can be healed. “Before the woman could accept the gift Jesus wanted to give her, she must understand her sin and her need for a Savior.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 187, adapted.