---
title:  Jesus Tells The Woman Who He Is
date:   30/10/2024
---

`Read John 4:16–24. What does Jesus do to show this woman that He knew her biggest secrets? How does the woman answer?`

The truth about herself is too difficult for the woman to accept right away. The woman understands that Jesus is a special messenger from God. At the same time, she avoids the truth again. She asks Jesus a question about the disagreement between Jews and Samaritans. These two groups argued about the correct place to worship.

In answer, Jesus says that the Samaritans didn’t know what they worshiped. Their worship was a mix of the Jewish religion and the worship of false gods. The Jews worshiped the God who shows Himself to His people.

Worship of the true God isn’t connected with a place. So, the topic about a place of worship isn’t important to the conversation. God is spirit. People who worship Him must do so in spirit and in truth. The woman accepts this truth from Jesus and is ready for more.

`How does Jesus show the woman who He really is? Read John 4:25, 26 for the answer.`

There are four books in the New Testament about Jesus’ life on earth. Jesus tells the woman that He is the Savior. This story is special because it is the only time in the four books before Jesus is arrested that He tells someone He is the Savior. Jesus does not make the announcement to a large crowd. He makes the announcement to an unnamed Samaritan woman. Jesus and the woman are alone at Jacob’s well. Jesus is interested in any lonely person who feels separated and alone.

The Samaritan woman is a foreigner. She is living in sin. Jesus tells this woman who He is. Jesus tells her that He knows her biggest secrets. He also gives her a reason to believe in Him, too.

`What are some of the behaviors that cause us to hide from each other? How does the Good News about Jesus help us to stop hiding from others? What does this story tell us?`