---
title:  The Story About The Samaritans
date:   31/10/2024
---

`What surprising thing does the woman do? Read John 4:27–29 for the answer.`

Jesus’ followers break up His conversation with the Samaritan woman. The followers are surprised to see that Jesus is talking with a woman. But they don’t ask Him about her. They try to get Him to eat.

At the same time, the woman forgets all about her water pot and leaves it at the well. She runs back to the city to tell other people her experience with Jesus.

`What happens after Jesus’ meeting with the Samaritan woman? What does this story teach us about how we can share the Good News about Jesus with other people? Read John 4:30–42 for the answers.`

In the middle of the story about the Samaritan woman, Jesus tells His followers a picture story about picking crops. Why does John write the story in this way? John wants us to see how Jesus understood what was happening. Jesus wanted to share the Good News with the woman more than He wanted to eat. His job on earth was to save people from sin. Jesus used this experience at the well to teach His followers an important lesson about sharing the Good News with all people, including people who aren’t the same as we are.

There are many wonderful parts in the Book of John. For sure, John 4:39–42 is one of them. Many of the Samaritans believed Jesus was the Savior because of the story the woman told them about Jesus. “She said, ‘He told me everything I ever did’ ” (John 4:39, NLV).

The Samaritans asked Jesus to stay with them. Then many more people believed because of what Jesus said to them. “The people said to the woman, ‘First we believed in Jesus because of what you told us. But now we believe because we heard him ourselves. We know now that he really is the one who will save the world [sinners]’ ” (John 4:42, ERV).

`What does this story tell us about how powerful one person’s story about Jesus can be? How power­ful is your story for Jesus? What has He done in your life?`