---
title:  WARNINGS FROM GOD'S SPECIAL MESSENGERS
date:   27/07/2019
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: 1 Samuel 8:10–18; Amos 3:9–11; Micah 2:8–11; Ezekiel 34:2–4, 7–16; Isaiah 1:15–23.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p> 
> “Human, the Lord has told you what goodness [being good] is. This is what he wants from you: Be fair to other people. Love kindness [being kind] and loyalty, and humbly [with no pride] obey your God” (Micah 6:8, ERV).

**SOME OF THE MOST INTERESTING PEOPLE** in the Bible are the Old Testament prophets. Prophets are God’s special messengers. They told the truth. God’s prophets got mad about all the evil things that Israel did. They felt deeply sad when God’s people turned away from Him again and again. The Old Testament prophets were brave. They were not afraid to show God’s people their sins. 

God sends His prophets mostly to Israel and Judah. God gives His prophets a special job. The Lord wants His prophets to tell His people to come back to Him. But the people and the leaders worship false gods more and more. They follow the same way of life as the people around them. So, the prophets tell God’s people to turn away from sin. The prophets help Israel remember God’s love for them. The prophets also warn God’s people about the bad things that will happen if they continue to walk away from God. 

What was one of the biggest sins that the prophets warned Israel about? The prophets told Israel to be fair to the poor and helpless people around them. False gods and false religions are bad. But so is our cheating the poor.

*The prophets are not afraid to tell God’s people to turn away from sin.*