---
title: 'God Tells His People To Be Fair'
date: 28/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God gave Israel His plan for how He wanted them to live. But Israel hardly ever followed it. Not long after God’s people started living in the Promised Land, they told Samuel to give them a king. Samuel was a judge and a prophet. A prophet is God’s special messenger. Why did Israel ask Samuel for a king when they already had God as their King? Because the people wanted to be “like [the same as] all the other nations [countries]” (1 Samuel 8:5, ERV).

`Samuel tells the people what will happen when they get a king. What things does Samuel warn them about? For the answer, read 1 Samuel 8:10–18.`

Samuel sees that Israel will become the same as the countries around them if they get a king. Samuel tried to give Israel’s first king good advice. But soon, God’s warning to Israel came true. God’s warning came true even when Israel was a strong kingdom under David and Solomon. These kings sinned and did evil. They also stole things that belonged to other people. Or they took too much.

So, God sent His prophets to the kings of Israel and Judah. He told His prophets to help His people remember that they were responsible for the poor and needy people in their land. The Hebrew prophets often talk about being fair. The prophets often showed the leaders and people that they were not being fair or loyal to God. The prophets were the “voices” for people in the land that had little or no power. The prophets helped defend the people who were hurt by Israel’s leaders when they were not fair. 

Abraham Joshua Heschel said, “The prophets got angry about the same bad things that happen every day on this earth. . . . We may think that the prophets got a little too upset. But did they really? We see people acting in ways that are not fair. They lie. They do evil things to other people. But when that happens, do we get upset or angry as the prophets did? The prophets saw that every small act of evil caused awful things to happen in big ways.”—The Prophets (New York: Jewish Publication Society of America, 1962), pages 3, 4, adapted. The prophets show us what is in God’s heart and mind. The prophets help us see this earth as God sees it. God’s eyes are full of tears because of the evil on this earth. But God asks us to work with Him to end the suffering and pain around us.

_The prophets helped defend the people who were hurt by Israel’s leaders when they were not fair._