---
title:  AMOS
date:   29/07/2019
---

Amos told King Amaziah, “ ‘I was not a prophet [God’s special messenger]. I wasn’t [was not] even the son of a prophet. I was a shepherd. I also took care of sycamore-fig trees. But the Lord took me away from taking care of the flock. He said to me. “Go. Prophesy [give special messages from God] to my people Israel” ’ ” (Amos 7:14, 15, NIrV). 

Amos does not try to hide the truth about who he is from anyone. He is no one special. Even so, God gives him the skill to grab the attention of the people with his message. 

Amos starts his message by naming all the countries around Israel: Syria, Philistia, Phoenicia, Edom, Ammon, and Moab. Then Amos lists all their sins. Amos warns that God will punish these people for their crimes (read Amos 1:3–2:3). It is easy to believe that Israel was happy that God was going to punish these people. Many of the crimes that these countries did were against Israel. 

Next, Amos announces Judah’s sins. Judah was the Southern Kingdom. Israel was the Northern Kingdom. Amos says that Judah is guilty of turning away from God. Then Amos announces the punishments that God will give Judah (read Amos 2:4, 5). Again, it is easy to believe that the people in the Northern Kingdom were glad that Amos was showing the people in the Southern Kingdom their sins.

But then Amos tells the people in Israel, the Northern Kingdom, their sins. Amos tells Israel that they are doing all the things God hates. They do evil. They are not fair. They do not show mercy. Again and again, Israel fails to live up to God’s plan.

`What sins does Amos warn Israel against? To find the answer, read Amos 3:9–11; Amos 4:1, 2; Amos 5:10–15; and Amos 8:4–6.`

Amos’ message warns Israel about their end. But he tells God’s people to turn back to God. How should they do that? By showing that they care for the poor. “But let what is fair roll [flow] down like [the same as] waters. Let what is right and good flow forever like a river” (Amos 5:24, NLV). Look at Amos’ final verses (read Amos 9:11–15). These verses are a promise of hope at a time when Israel’s sins against God were deep. Amos’ message shows that God will forgive His people and make them His again. 

_“ ‘Let what is right and good flow forever like [the same as] a river’ ” (Amos 5:24, NLV)._