---
title:  MICAH
date:   30/07/2019
---

`“Human, the Lord has told you what goodness [being good] is. This is what he wants from you: Be fair to other people. Love kindness [being kind] and loyalty, and humbly [with no pride] obey your God” (Micah 6:8, ERV). What are ways that you can follow this rule right now?`

Micah 6:8 is one of the best known verses in the Bible. Even so, we may not understand what it fully means. 

`Read Micah 2:8–11 and Micah 3:8–12. What were the people doing that Micah said was wrong?`

King Ahaz was a very evil king. God’s people sinned deeply during this time. They worshiped false gods. They did a lot of evil. God’s people also did not care about the poor. They cheated the poor and used them to get rich.

Micah warns God’s people of the awful things that will happen because of their sins. In the first three chapters of his book, Micah tells God’s people that God is very sad. God is angry at the evil they have done. Micah warns the people about the danger they are in. Micah also warns them about the punishments God soon will send their way. 

But God does not give up on His people. The warnings from God’s special messengers show us that God never stops caring about His people. God gave His people warnings because He loved and cared for them. He deeply wanted to forgive His people. He wanted to make them new. He will not stay angry forever (read Micah 7:18–20).

This information helps us understand the famous words in Micah 6:8. Now we understand better why God wants His people to be fair, to love mercy, and to live with no pride in their hearts. These rules may seem simple. But living them is a lot harder than we think. Why? Because many people on earth do not follow these rules. They are busy getting rich by not being fair. So, they laugh at people who show mercy. Truly, we can say that it takes a brave person to show that he or she loves mercy and does not have a proud heart. Yes, it is hard and takes courage to live this way. But remember, we have God’s help. When we live this way, we show we are not alone. God walks with us. 

`What is the connection between our loving mercy, being fair, and having hearts with no pride?`

*When we show mercy, God walks with us.*