---
title: Ezekiel
date: 31/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What do you think Sodom’s worst sins were? Most people will say sex sins. Genesis 19 shows us the things that the people in Sodom did that made God destroy them.

But Sodom’s worst sins go deeper than sex sins. Look at what Ezekiel says about Sodom’s sins: “Here is the sin your sister Sodom committed [did]. She and her daughters were proud [full of pride]. They ate too much. They were not concerned [did not care] about others [people]. They did not help those [people] who were poor and in need” (Ezekiel 16:49, NIrV). Let us be clear about something. This verse does not mean that God did not care about the sex sins going on in Sodom. God cared. But Ezekiel wants us to know about the other sins in Sodom too. The people in Sodom did not care for people who were in need. They cheated the poor. In God’s eyes, are these sins in Sodom just as bad as their sex sins?

Ezekiel wrote after the time that Amos, Micah, and Isaiah lived. But his words give the same warnings to Israel. God will destroy their country because of their sins. After Babylon takes the city of Jerusalem by force, Ezekiel’s message to God’s people changes. Now Ezekiel starts to talk about God’s promises to people. He will make His people new again and bring them back to their own country to live.

`Read Ezekiel 34:2–4, 7–16. What does God think about the evil leaders in Israel? How does God lead His people? What is the difference between the way God and the rulers lead the people? What do the leaders do to the poor? How is this behavior different from what God does?`

God’s people are so evil that God compares them to the people of Sodom. But does God stop trying to save His people? No. He keeps trying to get them to turn away from their evil ways. God has a new plan for His people. In this new plan, God will bring His people back to their land. God will help them rebuild Jerusalem and the temple. Then the people will celebrate the special feast days God gave them. Everyone will have land to live on (read Ezekiel 47:13–48:29). God gives His people the same plan that He gave to Moses after God took them out of Egypt. God planned to start this plan again as soon as His people came back from Babylon. God’s plan for His people also included their taking care of the poor and strangers too.

_God’s plan for His people included their taking care of the poor and strangers too._