---
title:  ISAIAH
date:   01/08/2019
---

`Read Isaiah 1:15–23; Isaiah 3:13–15; and Isaiah 5:7, 8. How did Isaiah feel about what he saw going on in the land around him?`

Isaiah starts his book with a sermon. Isaiah’s sermon is five chapters long (Isaiah 1–5). Isaiah tells God’s people what they are doing is wrong. Then he warns them about the troubles that will soon come. The people have turned away from God. They keep doing wrong. Now God will judge His people. But Isaiah offers hope to God’s people if they will turn back to God. They must change their lives. They must change how they do business. Isaiah is sad. Why? He knows who God is. He knows God expects His people to obey. Isaiah cries about what God’s people have lost. He also is upset about the many people that God’s people hurt and cheat every day. He cries because God will soon punish His people for their sins. 

Isaiah continues to give this same message his whole life. He asks the people to remember everything God does for them. Isaiah also offers the people hope. He tells them what God wants to do for them in the future. That is why, Isaiah tells them, they should come back to God now. Their new friendship with God will include two things. (1) They must feel sorry for their sins. And (2) they must change the way they act with other people. They must be kind and fair. They must show the poor they care about them.

In Isaiah 58 and 59, Isaiah again talks about being fair. He tells about the evil in his country. “ ‘People stop others [people] from doing what is fair. They keep them from doing what is right [good]. No one tells the truth in court anymore. No one is honest there’ ” (Isaiah 59:14, NIrV). But Isaiah also says that God knows everything that happens. God will come save His people. “ ‘Then a Redeemer [a Savior] will come’ ” (Isaiah 59:20, ERV). In many parts of the book of Isaiah, Isaiah talks about the coming Savior. The Savior will do what is fair and good. He will bring mercy and healing to the people on the earth.

`Read Isaiah 9:6, 7; Isaiah 11:1–5; Isaiah 42:1–7; and Isaiah 53:4–6. What do these special messages teach us about Jesus’ life, work, and death? What do these verses show us about why Jesus came to this earth?`

_The Savior will bring mercy and healing to the people on the earth._