---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   02/08/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

“Read Ellen G. White, “The Assyrian Captivity,” pages 279–292; “The Call of Isaiah,” pages 303–310; in Prophets and Kings. 

“The prophets scolded God’s people for not being fair. They told them it was wrong to waste money, time, and to buy expensive things. The prophets also scolded God’s people for their sex sins. But the people did not listen.” —Ellen G. White, *Prophets [special messengers] and Kings*, page 282, adapted.

Isaiah believed that “the future did not look good for God’s people. They wanted to get rich. They kept building more and more houses. They bought more and more land. . . . God’s people were not fair. They showed no pity to the poor. . . . God told the judges to take care of the poor. But the judges did not listen to the cries of the poor and the needy, the widows and the orphans. . . . 

“In the last year that Uzziah is king, God sends Isaiah to give His people a warning. It is no surprise that Isaiah does not want to do the job. He knows that the people are stubborn. He knows that they will not pay attention to his warning. They will turn away from it.”—Pages 306, 307, adapted.

“Today, we should accept the messages of the prophets as the words of God to every person on earth. We should not waste any chance we get to do acts of mercy. We should show people how much we care about them. We should think about their needs ahead of time and try to take care of them. We should show Christian love. We should be very polite and kind. We should do all these things for the poor and the needy and for people who were hurt or cheated by other people in power.”—Page 327, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. We often think that prophets only tell the future. But the Old Testament prophets did much more. How does their care for the poor change your ideas about what a prophet is and the work that he or she does?`

`2. The prophets show us that it is hard work to stand up for the truth. Why is that so?`

`3. The writings of the prophets show us both God’s love for His people and His anger at their sins. What do these different things show us about who God is?`

_“Today, we should accept the messages of the prophets as the words of God to every person on the earth.”_