---
title:  From Good to Bad
date:  16/08/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 14–16

**From Good to Bad**

Have you ever thought something incredible was happening and then it turned into a disaster? When something exciting comes our way, we tend to have high expectations. Our outlook on life improves, and we get excited just thinking about it. What happens when the longed-for expectation turns bad? Maybe the ultimate vacation turns into a nightmare, or a new romance becomes a relationship you can’t find your way out of. The triumph you expected threatens to become a catastrophe.

The Israelites had a similar experience. They had seen the miracles and plagues and experienced the Exodus. They were traveling to a land flowing with milk and honey (Exod. 3:17) to inherit the land promised to them by God (Gen. 12:7). This was unquestionably the greatest experience in their lives and in the lives of their people. Yet it wasn’t turning out that way. Instead of reaching a land flowing with milk and honey, the Israelites found themselves in the middle of a desert. With the Egyptians in hot pursuit, they began to wonder if they had actually escaped Pharaoh’s grasp or if they would soon be back in slavery.

When miracles happen, when life is good and the devil seems far away, believing in God can be easy. As distressing as it can be, it’s important to go through difficult things to build our faith. The same was true of the Israelites. The earlier demonstrations of God’s power over nature and the evil attacks of Pharaoh’s men became a distant memory. Stuck in the present, with trouble at their doorstep, they blamed Moses, and in so doing, blamed God.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 14:10–31 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 10–15. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map Exodus 14–16.

` `