---
title:  Abandoned
date:  17/08/2025
---

#### inGest

No sooner had the Israelites made it out of Egypt than trouble began. However, their plight was not unknown to God. Rather, God seems to have planned it to make a further example of the Egyptians. God led the Israelites to pitch camp between the mountains and the Red Sea. The Egyptians thought the Israelites had made a mistake and that it would be easy to recapture and enslave them again (Exod. 14:2, 3). Just as God had foreseen, Pharaoh again changed his mind and set out in pursuit of the Israelites. When the Israelites realized what was happening, they immediately forgot about the power they had seen demonstrated in the plagues and started complaining to Moses. Their complaint became so great that it leads us to wonder if God had made a good decision in saving them. The multitude blamed Moses for their trouble and wanted to go back to Egypt—back to slavery (v. 12). The Israelites had so completely lost hope that they didn’t even mention God at all.

Despite their predicament, God was still in control. He knew how weak the Hebrews were. He planned to continue working miracles on their behalf to convince them of His power and save them despite their faltering faith. The cloud by day and the fire by night calmed their fear and encouraged their faith (v. 20). The next day, He parted the waters of the Red Sea to provide a means of escape and drying the land underneath them. Pharaoh and his army followed the Israelites into the Red Sea in hot pursuit of their victims, only to have the waters return over them drown them all. The Israelites were jubilant. The congregation joined Moses and Miriam in singing songs of praise to God for delivering them. However, they almost immediately discovered what a dangerous place the desert is. Little water is available in such a wilderness, and for three days, they found none. The water they did finally find was undrinkable. Again, God performed a miracle by healing the waters of Marah, and they had water to drink.

By now, you should have noticed a pattern: the people complain about God’s plan, God performs a miracle to fix the problem, they encounter another problem, and the cycle repeats itself. However, God was behind the entire Exodus plan. He knows the desert does not have shade in the day or heat at night. He knows the desert does not have water for a few people, let alone such a vast multitude. He knows there is no food to eat in the wilderness, yet He led the Israelites straight into the desert.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 14–16. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`When has God led you into a wilderness of difficulty and challenges? How did He provide for you?`

`Do you think it was fair for the people to complain when God led them into the desert where they quickly ran out of water? What about when they discovered the Egyptian army in close pursuit?`