---
title:  The Wilderness
date:  18/08/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Many believers’ initial reaction when they find themselves in a spiritual desert is to feel that God has abandoned them. What we often don’t realize is that God wants to use our time in the wilderness to shine as our Redeemer and Provider. The Israelites experienced this when they reached the Wilderness of Sin. Only six weeks or so had passed since leaving Egypt, and their food had run out. They again complained to Moses, saying they wished they had died in Egypt (Exod. 16:3).

Having no food is a real problem. Since we know the end of the Israelites’ story, we typically find it difficult to identify with their struggle, but imagine taking your family on a road trip and ending up stranded in the middle of nowhere with no possibility of getting help and no food or water. It was a terrible emergency, but what seemed like a disaster was an opportunity for God to work on their behalf. Moses assured the clamoring crowd, “At evening you shall know that the Lord has brought you out of the land of Egypt. And in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord; for He hears your complaints against the Lord” (vv. 6, 7). God took this opportunity to introduce His plan for feeding them while they journeyed through the wilderness: the miracle of manna, appearing fresh on the desert ground every morning.

Today, when we find ourselves in trouble, do we respond like the Israelites and question whether God even exists? Basing our belief in God’s existence on whether our lives are going well is a problem Christians still face today. God wants to develop a relationship with us that’s dependent not on miracles but on trust. The good news is God doesn’t mind our complaining. He understands our weak faith and stands ready to hear our complaints, just as He did for the Israelites. He wants to deepen our faith in Him, and He knows that the desert is the best place to do it. A question and challenge for us to consider the next time we find ourselves in the wilderness is, “Can I find God here, or am I only seeking a way out?” God desires us to experience His peace and presence in the wilderness.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what situations are you sorely tempted to complain? How do you trust God in those situations?`