---
title:  Faith Firstborn
date:  20/08/2025
---

#### inVite

Jesus lived His life as the new Israel. When addressing Pharaoh, God referred to Israel as His firstborn son (Exod. 4:22). Jesus also came into this world as God’s firstborn Son (Rom. 8:29). Jacob, the father of the Israelites, had twelve sons. In the same way, Jesus, the new Israel, called twelve disciples to begin the church. The Israelite nation was birthed through the exodus from Egypt. Jesus also came out of Egypt (Matt. 2:15). The Exodus was marked by the miraculous parting of the Red Sea. Jesus began His ministry with His baptism, marked by the supernatural presence of God in a voice from heaven and a descending dove (3:16, 17). Most significantly for our study today, just as God led the Israelites into the desert following their baptism in the Red Sea, so also Jesus was led by the Spirit of God into the wilderness after His baptism.

What’s encouraging in this story is that although God led Jesus into the wilderness, God was not the one who tempted Him. Temptation comes only from the devil. Satan is the accuser of the brethren (Rev. 12:10) and always looks to bring the saints to destruction. Jesus, unlike ancient Israel, successfully illustrated God’s purpose in leading us through wilderness experiences. While it can seem like the wilderness is there to kill us, it’s actually there to allow us to learn and experience complete and utter dependence on God. Jesus began His ministry depending on God in the wilderness. Our wilderness experiences are places of personal spiritual growth. When our physical life is in God’s hands alone and no one else can save us, our spiritual life can be strengthened by trusting in God.

The problem we believers struggle with is the desire to get out of the desert. We don’t like being in places where our survival is in doubt. Jesus challenges His followers to change their thinking: “He who loses his life for My sake will find it” (Matt. 10:39). When our lives are under threat, faith can find its fullest expression. Job, the Old Testament paragon of suffering, expressed it best in his words of confidence in God: “Though He slay me, yet will I trust Him” (Job 13:15). While Job was relieved of his suffering, Jesus was not. Christ demonstrated that anyone can continue to trust in God even if they lose their life. That kind of faith is cultivated only through time spent in the wilderness.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 14–16 again and look for Jesus.`

`How can you embrace the wilderness experience as Jesus did?`

`Is God asking you to endure a wilderness right now? What can you do today to strengthen your trust in Him, His plan, and His provision?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`