---
title:  Remembering God’s Mercy
date:  11/10/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Joshua 3:1–5; Numbers 14:41–44; Joshua 3:6–17; Joshua 4; Judges 3:7; Matthew 3:16, 17.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘The Lord your God caused the water to stop flowing. The river was dry until the people finished crossing it. The Lord did the same thing for us at the Jordan that he did for the people at the Red Sea. Remember that he stopped the water at the Red Sea so we could cross. The Lord did this [miracle] so all people would know he has great [amazing] power. Then they will always respect the Lord your God’ ” (Joshua 4:23, 24, ICB).

A policeman turned his lights on behind John’s car. John pulled his car over to the side of the road. Then John remembered he left his driver’s license at work. John explained to the policeman what happened. The policeman asked John about his job. John said he was a professor. Then the policeman gave John a ticket. The policeman told John not to think of the ticket as punishment.

The policeman said, “When people want to learn something, they pay money for school. This ticket is the money you must pay to learn to remember your license when you drive. Have a good day, professor!”

As humans, we often forget things. We forget to water the plants or to wish someone happy birthday. But if we forget our spiritual needs, we can get in worse trouble than getting a ticket. Our everlasting life is in danger.

This week, let’s study about the Israelites crossing the Jordan River. What can we learn from their experiences?