---
title:  The Living God Of Wonders
date:  13/10/2025
---

`With God’s help, the Israelites cross the Jordan River. Their crossing is a miracle. What does this miracle tell us about the God we serve? Read Joshua 3:6–17 for the answer.`

Joshua 3:5 says that Israel’s crossing is a miracle. The word “miracle” comes from the Hebrew word “niphla’ot.” “Niphla’ot” are the “mighty acts of God” that show His power (Psalm 72:18; Psalm 86:10). Later, the Israelites think about these mighty acts. Then they praise the Lord (Psalm 9:1) and tell other people about Him (Psalm 96:3). Some of God’s miracles include the punishments in Egypt (Exodus 3:20; Micah 7:15), the crossing of the Red Sea, and God’s leading Israel in the desert (Psalm 78:12–16).

Bible writers tell us that God made the skies and the earth. So, God is very powerful. The things He makes cannot limit His actions. So, God can do anything (Jeremiah 32:17). God’s name is wonderful (Judges 13:18). We cannot fully understand Him.

When we compare God with the other gods, we see that they can’t save (Psalm 96:5; Isaiah 44:8). But the God of the Bible is a living God. His followers can trust Him to help them.

God’s special messenger, Zechariah, also used the word “miracle.” Zechariah used this word to discuss Israel’s future after the people came back from Babylon. God showed Zechariah that Jerusalem would be fully rebuilt. Then old people would sit in the streets of the city again. Boys and girls would play there. The people of Jerusalem could hardly believe Zechariah’s promise. The city was ruined. So, how could this miracle happen? Zechariah announced: “This is what the Lord of heaven’s armies says: ‘Those who are left alive then may think it is too difficult to happen. But it is not too difficult for me,’ says the Lord of heaven’s armies. This is what the Lord of heaven’s armies says: ‘I will save my people from countries in the east and west. I will bring them back. And they will live in Jerusalem. They will be my people. And I will be their good and loyal God’ ” (Zechariah 8:6–8, ICB).

`Read what Jesus says in Luke 18:18–27. How does Jesus’ answer to His followers help you trust that God is powerful enough to save His people?`