---
title:  Remember
date:  14/10/2025
---

`Why did God tell Joshua to put 12 stones in the Jordan River and another 12 stones in Gilgal? What did God want the Israelites to remember when they saw the stones? Read Joshua 4 for the answers.`

The stones shall be a “sign.” The Hebrew word “ ’ot” is often written as “wonder.” The word “ ’ot” can mean the mira­cles God does (read yesterday’s study). These mira­cles include God’s ten punishments against Egypt. The word “ ’ot” also can mean a “symbol” or “sign.” This symbol or sign shows us Bible truth. A rainbow is a “sign” of God’s promise (Genesis 9:12, 13). The Israelites put blood on the tops and sides of the doors of their houses in Egypt. The blood was a sign (Exodus 12:13) of their faith in God to save them. Most important, the Sabbath is a sign. The Sabbath shows that God made the skies and the earth. The Sabbath also shows us that God is with His people and makes them holy (Exodus 31:13, 17; Ezekiel 20:12).

In Joshua 4, the stones together make a sign. The stones will help future Israelites remember the miracle at the Jordan River. God parted the waters so that Israel could walk across on dry land. God’s followers often put stones in different places (Genesis 28:18–22). These stones, and other signs, caused people to ask questions about the Lord (Exodus 12:26, 27; Deuteronomy 6:20–25). For sure, the stones in the Jordan River and at Gilgal are powerful signs. They help the Israelites remember their past. At the same time, when the Israelites see the stones, or other signs, they must do more than remember. They must obey (Deuteronomy 5:15; Deuteronomy 8:2).

Now we understand why God commanded His people to set up the stones. The stones will help the Israelites remember forever the Lord’s miracles for them. Future Israelites also must understand the meaning of these stones. They can keep their faith alive only if they understand the mighty acts of the Lord in the past. Then they will have a living faith, not a dead religion. The same is true for us today. In the end, we need to make our faith our own. No one can believe for us.

`What are some of the signs from your own expe­rience? How do they help you remember the wonderful things God did for you?`