---
title:  Always Remember How The Lord Led You
date:  15/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 4:20–24, along with Judges 3:7; Judges 8:34; Psalm 78:11; Deuteronomy 8:2, 18; and Psalm 45:17. Why must we remember the mighty things the Lord did for us in the past?`

Notice the change from “you” to “us” in Joshua 4:23. The verse says that God dried up the Jordan River for “you.” Who is the “you” being talked about in this verse? The “you” is all the Israelites who just crossed the Jordan River. Compare how this same verse talks about Israel’s crossing of the Red Sea. The verse says that God dried up the Red Sea for “us.” The word “us” means the few people who are alive from the time when God led Israel out of Egypt. When we compare the two crossings, we see that many things are the same. The Israelites who crossed the Red Sea told their story to their children. Their story helped the children understand better their own crossing of the Jordan River.

When we tell our stories to our children, we help them remember the wonderful things God did. Sad to say, when we grow old, we may start to forget things. That is often a part of growing old. But sometimes our problem with remembering is not because we get old. Sometimes we stop thinking or caring about the things God did for us. When we stop, we may put ourselves in danger. So, we must do our best to remember the things God does for us.

We also must remember who we are. We must remember why we are here and the work God gave us to do. So, be sure to take time each day to remember these important things.

`Why must we always remember what Jesus did for us? Does anything really matter if we don’t remember? Read 1 Corinthians 11:24, 25 and John 14:26 for the answers.`

Ellen G. White understood that we must remember the things God did for us in the past. If we don’t, then we may stop serving God in the future: “Do we need to be afraid about the future and the things that will happen? Not if we always remember the way that the Lord led us in the past. We must remember the things He taught us, too.”—Life Sketches, page 196, adapted.

`How does remembering the things the Lord has done for us make our relationship with Him stronger each day?`