---
title:  The Jordan River As A Symbol
date:  16/10/2025
---

“He caused the Red Sea to become dry land.\
Then his people walked across the Jordan River!\
So we praise him for what he did there!” (Psalm 66:6, EASY).

When Israel crosses the Red Sea and the Jordan River, a new age in Bible history starts. Both the Red Sea and the Jordan River are symbols. These symbols teach us Bible truth (read Psalm 66:6; Psalm 114:1–7; and 2 Kings 2:6–15). Old Testament verses compare the Israelite’s crossing of the Red Sea with their crossing of the Jordan River. In Psalm 66, the writer of the poem celebrates God’s saving mercy in his life (Psalm 66:16–19). The poet uses the crossings of the Red Sea and the Jordan River to teach us about God’s mercy.

Psalm 114 also compares Israel’s crossing of the Red Sea with their crossing of the Jordan River. Both crossings teach the same Bible truth about God. The Lord led Israel out of slavery and made them free. The Lord led them from the desert into the Promised Land. In Psalm 114 and Psalm 66, the poet uses the two crossings to show change. The poet’s life changed from feeling helpless and poor to feeling healed, safe, happy, and saved.

When God carries Elijah to heaven, that story also happens at the Jordan River. The life of Elijah’s helper, Elisha, also is changed (1 Kings 19:21). When God takes Elijah to heaven, Elisha becomes God’s special messenger to Israel.

`Read Matthew 3:16, 17 and Mark 1:9. How do the New Testament writers talk about the Jordan River? What do they suggest that the Jordan River is a symbol of?`

Jesus’ work on earth follows the pattern of Israel’s ancient history in the Old Testament. Jesus has ­experiences that help us remember Israel’s experience at the Red Sea and the Jordan River. God leads Jesus out of Egypt (Matthew 2:14–16). Jesus spends 40 days in the desert (Matthew 4:1, 2). In the same way, Israel spent 40 years in the desert. Before Jesus starts His public work for God, He is baptized in the Jordan River (Matthew 3:16, 17; Mark 1:9). Later, the book of Hebrews talks about Israel’s crossing of the Jordan. The crossing into Canaan is a symbol for the rest that Christians “enter” into with faith.