---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  17/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Crossing the Jordan,” pages 483, 484, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Study carefully the experiences of Israel in their travels to Canaan. Also, study Joshua 3 and 4. These chapters talk about how Israel got ready and then crossed over the Jordan River into the Promised Land. We always need to remember the lessons that the Lord taught His people in ancient times. Then Bible teachings always will be interesting and important to us, just as they were to Israel in Bible times.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 2, page 994, adapted.

“Modern Israel is in danger of forgetting God. When we forget God, we will worship false gods, the same as Israel did in Bible times. Today, Christians worship many false gods. Sabbath keepers worship false gods, too. In Old Testament times, God told Israel to be careful. They must not worship false gods. False gods lead us away from serving the living God. If false gods led Israel away from serving God, they would be under God’s curse. So, Israel must always remember to love God with all their heart, spirit, and might. Then God would bless them in every way. God would remove all disease from them.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 609, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Talk about the miracle of Israel’s crossing at the Jordan River. What is a miracle? Does it seem to you that God isn’t doing miracles today? Explain.`

`What can you do to remember the important spiritual truths about God that the Bible teaches? Why is our having a relationship with God so important to our remembering? Also, why must we be careful NOT to build our whole Christian experience on powerful past experiences? At the same time, how can we use our past experiences to help us remember the wonderful ways God worked in our lives?`

`How can the Sabbath help us to remember how God helped us in the past? How does the Sabbath also help us understand the promised rest that we will enjoy in God’s kingdom in the future?`