---
title:  Justification by Faith Alone
date:   15/07/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me” (Gal. 2:20, ESV).

**Introduction**: Acts 12:6–9; Rom. 5:15; Gal. 2:20

**Songs of Faith**

In our study this week, we may struggle to know exactly what Paul meant by the doctrine of justification by faith. But some of our best-known hymns tell us exactly how it feels. “Amazing Grace” was written by John Newton in 1772. Newton had good reason to consider himself a “wretch.” Abandoning the religion of his youth, he became a rebellious young man who was notorious for his wild ways. While onboard the ship Greyhound, Newton was called by the captain one of the most profane men he had ever met. Later in his career, he worked on slave ships as part of that terrible traffic in human beings.

But finding his faith means that everything has changed.

But a terrifying storm at sea, which Newton only survived by tying himself to the ship’s pump, began his conversion. When he left the sea for good, he became a priest and wrote many hymns, of which “Amazing Grace” is the most popular.

In this hymn, Newton admits that his life has not been perfect. He has felt “lost” and “blind.” But finding his faith means that everything has changed. The feeling of wonder and joy in this hymn makes it a universal favorite.

“And Can It Be?” was written by Charles Wesley in 1738. Wesley’s story was very different from John Newton’s. He was an exemplary child who grew up to be a clergyman. While at Oxford, he and his brother John led a prayer group known for the piety of its members. The name “Methodist,” used to describe members of the group, came from their reputation for methodical Bible study and a disciplined lifestyle.Yet in spite of all Charles’s good works, he felt worthless in God’s eyes.

All this changed when he had a conversion experience and began his mission to ordinary people, traveling the country and preaching in fields so that everyone could experience God’s love.

In this hymn, Wesley admits that he can’t understand why Jesus should take responsibility for his sins. It doesn’t make sense. But his expression of how wonderful it feels makes this one of his best-known and best-loved hymns.

**React**

1. Look up the rest of the words of these hymns. Which do you prefer, and why?
2. Do we have to be able to explain something before we can experience it?

_Jenny Waller, Somerset, England_