---
title:  A Law Unto Themselves
date:   16/07/2017
---

**Evidence**:  Rom. 2:12–15; Gal. 2:15

**Outsiders and Insiders**

Paul seems to have been proud of his Roman citizenship and boyhood in the rich Cilician trading city of Tarsus, where Greco-Roman culture provided wide-ranging educational opportunities and where he learned to speak and write Hellenistic Greek.

As a Jew, Paul later also received a Hebrew education in Jerusalem. But coming from abroad, he may have felt like an outsider. Maybe his dress or accent attracted mockery? Perhaps it was to compensate for these differences or for physical infirmities that he became a Pharisee, fanatical in his opposition to the teachings—and followers—of a Messiah who seemed little more than a weakling. To Paul, God’s chosen people could be saved from destruction only by faithful attention to every detail of the law of Moses.They needed to be insiders.

**Christ’s new covenant allows room for cultural diversity and for a community spirit that extends across boundaries of race and culture, resulting in equality of faith, not exclusivism.**

**New Faith, New Outreach**

However, the Paul writing to the Galatians was a new man. He had come in from the cold of legalism to the warmth of redemptive grace. Now he had a new commission—sharing the gospel. But he was still an outsider, not easy for Jewish followers of Christ to trust. It’s clear that God chose Paul because of his earlier fanatical commitment to tradition. This meant he understood the need to go beyond the status quo to share Christ with outsiders like the Galatians without requiring them to take on Jewish identity. Christ’s new covenant allows room for cultural diversity and for a community spirit that extends across boundaries of race and culture, resulting in equality of faith, not exclusivism.

**React**

`1. Read Romans 2:12–15; and consider what the following phrases/words mean:“conscience”(verse 15, NIV), “do by nature things required by the law” (verse 14, NIV), and “a law for themselves” (verse 14, NIV).`

`2. Do modern Gentiles need missionaries, or can we leave evangelism to the Holy Spirit?`

`3. How do we share the gospel without imposing our culture?`

_Margaret Arbuckle Paterson, Bracknell, England_