---
title:  The Just Shall Live by Faith!
date:   17/07/2017
---

**Logos**: Ps. 143:2; Matt. 22:37–39; Luke 15:11–32; John 1:12; 3:16; Rom. 1:17; 4:2; 5:1; Gal. 2:14–21

**Background (Gal. 2:14–21)**

In Galatians 2:14–21, Paul is responding to the news that church leaders including Peter (or Cephas), Barnabas, and other former Jews were requiring non-Jewish converts to follow Jewish custom and be circumcised. This was about far more than the conduct of the church’s leaders. “The welfare of the Gentile believers was at stake, and even the fate of the gospel itself. If the Judaizing party [had] its way, then the gospel— salvation through faith in the atoning death of Jesus—would be [replaced] by the doctrine of salvation through the works of the law.Thus ‘the truth of the gospel’ would no longer be proclaimed.”1

**Faith and faith alone is the means by which we are justified.**

**The Importance of Faith (Gal. 2:20)**

Since Paul did not use either paragraph breaks or quotation marks, it is not clear whether his address to Peter ends with verse 14 or continues through to verse 21. Since Peter now drops out of sight, it is probably better to see Paul’s rebuke to him as ending with verse 14 and to regard the verses that follow as a statement of Paul’s understanding of the gospel in miniature, specifically in the context of the situation in Galatia.2

In verse 20, Paul makes it clear that for him the question of faith is at the heart of both his own relationship with Christ and of the gospel as a whole.

“I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me.And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me” (verse 20, ESV).

This affirmation of the importance of faith is a recurring theme in both the Gospels (John 1:12; 3:16) and Paul’s other writings (see Rom. 4:3; 5:1).

**The Doctrine of Justification by Faith (Ps. 143:2)**

Paul argues that justification (a legal term whereby we are spared the consequences of sin) comes as a free gift of God through Christ. Works have no part in the transaction. On God’s part, it is a gift made possible through Christ. On humanity’s part, we have to trust that God is able and willing to justify us as sinners. Faith and faith alone is the means by which we are justified.3

For Paul, this doctrine is above all about a personal reaching out to the love and peace of God as revealed in Christ. Justification may be a legal term, but it simply signifies that we are accepted by God, granted permission to stand as members of His household, and recognized as His children with all the potentialities of heirs. Our status is restored just as the prodigal son was restored to his former position through his father’s grace when all he sought was the rank of a servant. Note how Paul supports his argument with a quotation from the Old Testament (Ps. 143:2). Scripture was for the Jews the final court of appeal.

By the doctrine of justification by faith in Christ, without the need for the works of the law, Paul avoids two difficulties. First, the grace of God becomes essential, whereas if we could be justified through works, there would be no need of grace. Second, the death of Christ remains central, whereas if we look for salvation to the law of Moses, Christ’s death is unnecessary.4

**Faith and the Reformation (Rom. 1:17)**

The doctrine of justification by faith lies at the heart of the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century. Martin Luther, a leading figure in the Reformation, came to reject the Medieval church’s claim that forgiveness could be bought with acts of penance or with money.

The story goes that the pope had promised an indulgence (a reduction in punishment) to all who climbed on their knees up “Pilate’s staircase,” said to have been descended by Christ and to have been miraculously conveyed from Jerusalem to Rome. One day Luther was devoutly climbing up these steps, when suddenly a voice like thunder seemed to say to him, “The righteous shall live by faith” (Rom. 1:17, ESV). He sprang to his feet and left the place in shame and horror.That text never lost its power for him.

From that time on, he saw clearly the fallacy of trusting to human works for salvation and the need, instead, for faith in Christ. “His eyes had been opened, and were never again to be closed, to the delusions of the papacy. When he turned his face from Rome, he had turned away also in heart, and from that time the separation grew wider, until he severed all connection with the papal church.”5

**React**

`1. Do we need to understand everything before we can have faith in God? Why, or why not? (see Job 13:15)`

`2. Why is the doctrine that the just shall live by faith so important to the Christian walk? Is faith a leap into the darkness or a leap into the light?`

`3. What reformation do you think would occur if we studied Galatians afresh? What needs reforming in our church or lives?`

`4. How does the parable of the prodigal son illustrate justification by faith? (Luke 15:11–32).`

1. The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 6, p. 948.
2. George Arthur Buttrick, ed., The Interpreter’s Bible,vol.10 (NewYork:Abingdon-Cokesbury, [1951–1957]), p. 482.
3. Frederick Carl Eiselen, Edwin Lewis, and David G. Downy, eds., The Abingdon Bible Commentary (New York: Abingdon Press, 1929), p. 1212.
4. Matthew Henry’s Commentary, p. 638.
5. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 125.

_Roy King, Bracknell, England_