---
title:  'Justification by Faith: Living as if You Believe It'
date:   19/07/2017
---

**How-to**: Luke 19:1–9; John 8:3–11; Rom. 3:22–31; Gal. 1:16; 2; 3:22; 5:22, 23; James 2:18

The argument in Galatians 2 over circumcision is about being exclusive and about belonging to a distinctive community of the “saved” by obeying the law. Paul is “astonished” by such behavior (Gal. 1:6, NIV), calling it a perversion of the gospel. So how can we make sure we avoid it?

Don’t use the law to judge others. Adventists are encouraged to live by certain guidelines about what to eat, what to wear, and how to behave. The guidelines are intended to keep us healthy and to protect us from what Paul calls the “acts of the flesh” (Gal. 5:19, NIV). But it’s tempting to use them to judge others, turning them into sinners in the eyes of our community and creating barriers for new believers.

**None of us will be judged perfect because of how we’ve lived our lives, however obedient we were or however much good we did.**

Our tendency to judge one another, and our hypocrisy in doing so, is a constant theme in the Gospels.Remember the tax collector (Luke 19:1–9) and the woman caught in adultery (John 8:3–11), presented to Christ as sinners but forgiven by Him. Both of them and each of us are made right with God (“justified”) through faith—not by what we’ve done.

Reflect on the judgment and what saves us. Standing before God at the judgment, none of us will be judged perfect because of how we’ve lived our lives, however obedient we were or however much good we did. Instead, through grace (a free gift we do not deserve) Jesus will stand in our place. Although He is sinless, He suffered the punishment we deserve. Accepting this will keep our focus on faith rather than works. “This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe” (Rom. 3:22, NIV).

Act in line with your faith. Your faith in Christ will show in your life—in your choices, your actions, and the way you treat other people (yes, they will notice). As James says, “Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds” (James 2:18, NIV).

**React**

`1. Have you ever made judgments about whether someone else is a good Christian? Or have you heard others discuss church members in this way? Should they?`

`2. The world is very competitive.Some people strive for perfection and feel bad when they don’t achieve it.What does this week’s lesson say to them?`

_Rob Waller, Somerset, England_