---
title:  The Road to Hell
date:   20/07/2017
---

**Opinion**: Gal. 2:15, 16; 5:22, 23

For psychologist Izzy Kalman, most of the world’s problems are caused by good intentions.1 The witch hunters of the Middle Ages burned tens of thousands of women to try to end epidemics. Even Hitler believed he was doing the right thing, making the world a better place without Jews and other people he thought were impure.

**Both matter.**

The same applies to our actions in the natural world. “In the 1970s, catfish farmers introduced Asian carp into their fisheries with the good intention of keeping the water clear of plankton and algae, allowing for healthier catfish.”2 Now the voracious and aggressive Asian carp have decimated native species. That well-known expression, “The road to hell is paved with good intentions,” is all too often true.

Kalman states, “We can’t assume that everything that results from our good intentions will be positive. . . . Good intentions alone are not enough to make our actions moral.” We have to take responsibility for the consequences of our actions, even if they’re unintended.

In Galatians 5, Paul provides us with a way of testing whether our actions are truly moral. If we’re acting in accordance with God’s will, everything we do will demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit, “love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control” (Gal. 5:22, 23, NIV). Just think how different history would be if world leaders had applied this test.

For Christian philosopher C. S. Lewis, the age-old argument about whether faith or works is more important is not really an argument at all. Both matter.

“Christians have often disputed as to whether what leads the Christian home is good actions, or Faith in Christ. . . . It does seem to me like asking which blade in a pair of scissors is most necessary.”3

**React**

`1. Have you ever done something that had unintended consequences?`

`2. Do terrorists think they have good intentions? Do you think they do?`

`3. Do the ends ever justify the means?`


1. Izzy Kalman, “Principle Number One: The Road to Hell Is Paved With Good Intentions,” PsychologyToday.com, accessed May 12, 2016, https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog /resilience-bullying/201008/principle-number-one-the-road-hell-is-paved-good-intentions.
2. Ibid.
3. C. S. Lewis, Mere Christianity (New York: HarperOne, 1952), p. 148.

_Elizabeth Rhodes, Somerset, England_