---
title:  Custom-Made Religion
date:   21/07/2017
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 2:14–21; 3:1–10; Heb. 11:6; 2 Cor. 5:17

**Conclude**

To be an observant Jew in the first century was to wrestle with identity. The glory days of Israel were many generations past, and whether one lived in Judea or Galatia, they were ruled by a government indifferent to their religious principles.To hold on toidentity, people emphasized customs that set them apart.The trouble came when those practices, though meant to point to God, came to overshadow God.When Jewish Christians pushed Gentile converts to follow Jewish customs, Paul reminded them that it’s our internal faith in Jesus that saves us, not our external actions. After all, Paul said, if our works could save us, Jesus could have saved Himself the trip to Earth.

**Consider**

- Listing different ways you and people you’ve known have tried to earn favor with God.
- Diagramming the percentage of your relationship with God that you think is based on works versus trusting in and relying on Him.
- Meditating on the role faith plays in reconciling us to God.
- Celebrating what God has done for you and what you’ve overcome.
- Discussing whether Christians today give too much emphasis to works or to relationship.
- Role-playing the debate between Paul and those pushing justification by works.
- Planning how you will live by faith in God.

**Connect**

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 36, “Apostasy in Galatia.”

George R. Knight, Exploring Galatians and Ephesians (Review and Herald®, 2005), chapter 8, “One Gospel for All, 2:14–21.”

Carl P. Cosaert, Galatians: A Fiery Response to a Struggling Church (Review and Herald®, 2011), chapter 4, “Our New Identity in Christ.”

_Tompaul Wheeler, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_