---
title: Preparing for the End
date: 16/11/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 12**

**Preparing for the End**

Thus far, we’ve encountered the beginning of Jesus’ ministry (lessons 1–4) and explored how revelation resulted in conflict (lessons 5–7). The rest of our studies will focus on Jesus’ impending crucifixion, death, and resurrection. In John 12, the story begins to shift. As Jesus’ teachings continued to divide the crowds, He plainly announced that His hour had come (John 12:23, 27). John 12 has four main sections: Mary washing Jesus’ feet (vv. 1–11), the triumphal entry into Jerusalem (vv. 12–19), Jesus’ interactions with the crowd (vv. 20–36a), and a reflection on the people’s response to Jesus followed by a challenge (vv. 36b–50).

Mary washing Jesus’ feet links John 11 and 12. The correlations suggest that the two chapters should be understood together. Jesus raising Lazarus is a high point in the Gospel that demonstrates Jesus’ victory over death. However, we see death intruding into the story once again, this time preying on Christ. The joy of the dinner party was darkened by death’s shadow.

All four Gospels record this gathering, though Luke places it earlier in his narrative (see Matt. 26:6–13; Mark 14:3–9; Luke 7:36–50). It’s natural to wonder, given the uniqueness of Luke’s retelling, whether it was the same event. Nevertheless, the points of similarity between the accounts coupled with the importance of Jesus’ statement in Matthew 26:13 (also in Mark 14:9) make it almost inconceivable that a writer as meticulous as Luke would neglect this story. In the Gospel of John, this story is a pivotal moment where everything began to point to Jesus’ imminent death. Jesus announced to those attending the dinner that His anointing by Mary was for His burial.

This story happens the week of the Passover (John 12:1). John is the only Gospel that clearly identifies three different Passover feasts during Jesus’ ministry (John 2:13; 6:4; 12:1). This suggests that Jesus’ ministry lasted about 3.5 years. The last ten chapters of the Gospel are devoted to the final week of Jesus’ life and the subsequent events.

#### inScribe

Read John 12. Focus on verses 35–43 if you are short on time. Jot down any questions or observations that arise. Create a paraphrase of the chapter, quote it in a version you don’t frequently use, or create an outline or a mind map of the verses. Where does the passage apply to your life?

` `