---
title: Extravagant Love
date: 17/11/2024
---

#### inGest

Mary poured out a year’s worth of wages in one gift. Her washing Jesus’ feet foreshadowed His washing the disciples’ feet (John 13:1–20). The aroma of the rare and costly perfume filled the entire house. In the broken flask, Jesus saw His own broken body. In the ointment running to waste, He saw His blood shed for the world, yet rejected by many. Mary’s deep devotion and love reflect Christ’s love for us. Her extravagant gift pointed to His complete emptying of Himself for us. The extreme cost of this perfume was a small representation of God’s much more expensive gift: His Son.

The sweet smell of the perfume that followed Jesus the rest of the week was an important reminder to Him of the people He came to save. “She has kept this for the day of My burial” (12:7). The smell of this perfume must have been one of the few encouragements Jesus received while hanging on the cross.

Mary’s deed expressed her repentance and devotion just as Martha’s serving communicated love and care (v. 26). In stark contrast, Judas claimed to be a disciple of Jesus and yet resented Jesus’ acceptance of such a lavish gift. Judas started the complaint that spread among the disciples (vv. 4, 5; Matt. 26:8). Jesus’ defense and commendation of Mary validated her actions and rebuked Judas’ attitude. Although Mary was misunderstood and judged, Jesus accepted her expression of love. Like Mary, though Jesus was misunderstood by many, He gave all to show God’s extravagant love for us.

The evil plotting of the chief priests is in glaring contrast with the generosity of Mary’s deed. No longer was it sufficient for Jesus to die; they had to destroy Lazarus as well (John 12:9–11). The crowd’s split response continued and compounded in the next scene. A throng of pilgrims traveling to celebrate the Passover started a parade, repeatedly shouting, “Hosanna! Blessed is... the King of Israel!” (v. 13). They waved palm branches, which represented national triumph and victory. However, for all their enthusiasm, they were misinformed about the kind of king Jesus is and what His victory will look like (16:33).

As if in response to the crowd’s acclamation of Him as the King of Israel, Jesus mounted the donkey. Indeed, He is a humble king (Zech. 9:9). The crowds didn’t fully understand, and neither did the disciples (John 12:16). Jesus upended their understanding of power and authority, a theme that crescendos throughout the passion narrative (John 18:28—19:22).

The witnesses were divided. The crowd acted as a faithful witness, declaring what they had seen (12:17, 18; c.f. 1:35, 36; 4:39). The Pharisees, however, were driven to exasperation as they realized what was occurring (12:19). Their worst fears were confirmed as they saw the entire world being influenced. They heightened their resolve to kill Jesus. These conflicting responses, the positive juxtaposed with the negative, are a consistent theme in the Gospel of John.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 12. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What was the purpose of Mary’s extravagant gift?`

`What have you given for Jesus?`