---
title: Teaching the Crowds
date: 18/11/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The arrival of the Greeks seeking Jesus confirmed the Pharisees’ fears. These Greeks were likely “God-fearers,” attracted to Jewish monotheism but not full converts. When Andrew (who was always bringing people to Jesus—John 1:42; 6:8, 9) and Philip presented their request to Jesus, He emphasized the significance of the moment: “The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified” (John 12:23). The promise of the coming Savior of the world (4:42) was being realized. The declaration, “the hour has come,” is in the present perfect tense, which emphasizes its importance. It conveys the idea that the hour had arrived and the results would be ongoing. “The hour has come” identifies a turning point in Jesus’ ministry.

Jesus used the illustration of a grain of wheat dying to produce a harvest (12:24–26). Fruitfulness comes only through death. Jesus’ death yielded an abundant harvest of believers around the world, much of which can be seen in the book of Acts. The Greeks’ desire to see Jesus foreshadowed, in a small way, the global extent of the coming harvest. Like a seed that’s buried in the ground and dies, Jesus lived a life of self-sacrificing service and ultimately laid down His own life for others. Those who love their own lives and focus on protecting themselves do the opposite of what Jesus did in both His life and His death (10:11, 15, 17; 15:13).

Ultimately, Jesus extends the call to die to self to all who choose to follow Him (see also Matt. 10:38; Mark 8:34; Luke 14:27). As the seed must die to bear fruit, so we must die to self to be born again in Christ. By following Christ’s example of selfless service, we unite with Him in His death. All who choose to follow Christ can look forward to the great reward of being honored by the Father Himself (John 12:26).

Jesus then became deeply troubled by the immediacy of His death—understandably so. He dreaded the coming separation from His Father. Still, Jesus did not pray for an escape from this dreadful trial. He resolved to not retreat, saying, “for this purpose I came” (v. 27). Christ’s humanity shrank from the prospect of death, but He yielded His will fully to the Father (v. 28; 6:38).

Jesus declared the profound significance of His death, indicating that by it the world is judged and the ruler of this world would be cast out (12:30, 31; 14:30; 16:11). As Jesus revealed God’s love through His sacrifice, Satan and his selfish cruelty were fully unmasked. The result of Christ’s death is that “all” will be drawn to Him (12:32), as foreshadowed by the arrival of the Greeks who came to the temple seeking Him. His supreme act of love will draw all to Him.

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What lessons can we learn from Jesus’ example about how to proceed when we’re deeply troubled?`