---
title: Ending His Public Ministry
date: 20/11/2024
---

#### inVite

The last part of verse 36 marks a transition in Jesus’ ministry. His hour had arrived. Soon He would cast out the prince of this world. At that time, Jesus withdrew from public ministry to dedicate the rest of His time to teaching His disciples and preparing them for when He would leave their physical presence.

As Jesus lost His ability to continue ministering to the multitudes, John offered an explanation for Christ’s rejection by His own people. Today, the church is largely comprised of non-Jews. This was not the original situation. The early believers were all Jewish. However, this began to change with the Jews’ rejection of Christ and the Gentiles’ acceptance of the gospel. Unfortunately, much of Christianity’s Hebraic roots were lost in this transition—take the seventh-day Sabbath, for example.

A common question among believers is why Israel rejected the Messiah. This question isn’t new; Paul struggled with it, too (Rom. 9–11). John addressed the dilemma by quoting certain passages from Isaiah (John 12:38–41; Isa. 53:1; 6:10, 11). The first text refers to Isaiah’s understanding that the people would not believe. The second provides a firm explanation: the eyes and understanding of the people were hardened. This echoes John’s opening words: “He came to His own, and His own did not receive Him” (John 1:11). Their acceptance of Christ would come at a cost, one that many were not willing to pay (12:42, 43; 3:20; 9:22).

John also applied Isaiah’s prophecies of God’s glory as being fulfilled through the ministry of Jesus (12:41). Jesus’ glory has been presented clearly from the Gospel’s beginning (1:14; 2:11). John interpreted Isaiah’s vision of Yahweh’s glory (Isa. 6:3) as referring to the people who saw Jesus’ glory but did not believe (John 12:41). For John, there was no distinction between the glory of Yahweh and the glory of Christ—another compelling argument for Jesus’ divinity.

Despite widespread unbelief, some leaders did respond in faith. However, their fear of ridicule or losing their positions kept many from openly expressing their belief (vv. 42, 43). Desiring the glory that comes from man rather than from God hindered their faith (12:43; 5:44). Perhaps Nicodemus was one of these.

Here, at the close of His public ministry, Jesus extended a final public appeal (12:44–50). He offers salvation to the whole world. Our response to this gift is its only limitation. The closing words of the chapter emphasize the reality of judgment. The process of judgment is continually occurring in the present as individuals respond to or reject the light that comes to them. The way we respond now forms the basis of the final judgment (vv. 47, 48). Jesus also emphasized that while some seek human glory, His one aim was to seek glory for the One who sent Him: the Father.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 12 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What do you think are the most significant barriers to more people accepting the amazing gift of salvation?`

`In what ways does a desire to please people prevent you from pleasing God? What can you do to work on this proclivity?`

`Prayer Response:`