---
title: Pouring Out Love
date: 21/11/2024
---

#### inSight

To understand the cost of Mary’s gift, it’s helpful to understand where it came from. The perfume Mary used was called spikenard. An extract from the roots and stems of a Himalayan plant, this perfume had made a long journey from the heights of the Himalayas, across the countries known today as India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Palestine, and Israel to a village on the outskirts of Jerusalem (Siegfried Horn, Seventh-day Adventist Bible Dictionary, rev. ed. [1979], 1063, 1064). This costly gift was a small token of Mary’s love for the One who saved her.

“Mary, pouring out her love upon the Saviour while He was conscious of her devotion, was anointing Him for the burial. And as He went down into the darkness of His great trial, He carried with Him the memory of that deed, an earnest of the love that would be His from His redeemed ones forever” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 560).

“A council of the priests and Pharisees was called. Since the raising of Lazarus the sympathies of the people were so fully with Christ that it would be dangerous to seize upon Him openly. So the authorities determined to take Him secretly, and carry on the trial as quietly as possible.... Thus they proposed to destroy Jesus. But so long as Lazarus lived, the priests and rabbis knew that they were not secure. The very existence of a man who had been four days in the grave, and who had been restored by a word from Jesus, would sooner or later cause a reaction.... The Sanhedrin therefore decided that Lazarus also must die. To such lengths do envy and prejudice lead their slaves. The hatred and unbelief of the Jewish leaders had increased until they would even take the life of one whom infinite power had rescued from the grave” (Ibid., 558).

“The hour of Christ’s glorification had come. He was standing in the shadow of the cross, and the inquiry of the Greeks showed Him that the sacrifice He was about to make would bring many sons and daughters to God. He knew that the Greeks would soon see Him in a position they did not then dream of. They would see Him placed beside Barabbas, a robber and murderer, who would be chosen for release before the Son of God. They would hear the people, inspired by the priests and rulers, making their choice.... For a moment He looked into futurity, and heard the voices proclaiming in all parts of the earth, ‘Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.’ John 1:29. In these strangers He saw the pledge of a great harvest, when the partition wall between Jew and Gentile should be broken down, and all nations, tongues, and peoples should hear the message of salvation” (Ibid., 622).

#### Journal:

`After this week’s study, what are some personal applications you are convicted of in your life?`

`What are some practical applications you must make in your school, family, workplace, and church life?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`