---
title:  “Let Us Go Down”
date:  27/04/2022
---

`Read Genesis 11:5–7 and Psalm 139:7–12. Why did God come down to the earth here? What was the event that motivated this divine reaction?`

Ironically, although the men were going up, God had to come down to them. The descent of God is an affirmation of His supremacy. God will always be beyond our human reach. Any human effort to rise up to Him and to meet Him in heaven is useless and ridiculous. No question, that’s why, in order to save us, Jesus came down to us; there was, indeed, no other way for Him to save us.

A great irony in the Tower of Babel account is seen in God’s statement: “to see the city and the tower” (Gen. 11:5). God did not have to come down to see (Ps. 139:7–12; compare with Ps. 2:4), but He did so anyway. The concept emphasizes God’s involvement with humanity.

`Read Luke 1:26–33. What does this teach us about God’s coming down to us?`

The descent of God reminds us also of the principle of righteousness by faith and of the process of God’s grace. Whatever work we may perform for God, He will still have to come down to meet with us. It is not what we do for God that will bring us to Him and to redemption. Instead, it is God’s move toward us that will save us. In fact, the text in Genesis talks twice about God going “down,” which seems to imply how much He cared about what was happening there.

According to the text, the Lord wanted to put an end to the people’s deep-seated unity, which—given their fallen state—could lead only to more and more evil. That’s why He chose to confuse their languages, which would bring an end to their united schemes.

“The schemes of the Babel builders ended in shame and defeat. The monument to their pride became the memorial of their folly. Yet men are continually pursuing the same course—depending upon self, and rejecting God’s law. It is the principle that Satan tried to carry out in heaven; the same that governed Cain in presenting his offering.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 123.

`How do we see in the Tower of Babel account another example of human hubris and how, ultimately, it will fail? What personal lessons can we take from this story?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Christ] came to this world in human form, to live a man amongst men. He assumed the liabilities of human nature, to be proved and tried. In His humanity He was a partaker of the divine nature. In His incarnation He gained in a new sense the title of the Son of God. . . . While the Son of a human being, He became the Son of God in a new sense. Thus He stood in our world—the Son of God, yet allied by birth to the human race.<br/>
Christ came in human form to show the inhabitants of the unfallen worlds and of the fallen world that ample provision has been made to enable human beings to live in loyalty to their Creator. He endured the temptations that Satan was permitted to bring against Him, and resisted all his assaults. He was sorely afflicted, and hard beset, but God did not leave Him without recognition. When He was baptized of John in Jordan, as He came up out of the water, the Spirit of God, like a dove of burnished gold, descended upon Him, and a voice from heaven said, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” (Matthew 3:17).—Selected Messages, book 1, pp. 226, 227.

God sees the sinner. . . . David was a repentant man, and although he confessed and hated his sin, he could not forget it.<br/>
He exclaimed, “Whither shall I go from Thy Spirit? or whither shall I flee from Thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, Thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, Thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; even there shall Thy hand lead me. . . . Yea, the darkness hideth not from Thee; but the night shineth as the day” [Psalm 139:7-12].<br/>
God is everywhere. He sees, He knows, all things, and understands the intents and purposes of the heart. It is in vain that an attempt should be made to conceal sin from His notice. He saw our first parents in Eden. He saw Cain when he raised his hand to kill Abel. He saw the sins of the inhabitants of the old world, and numbered their days and punished them with a flood. He saw the sins of His own covenant people, the Jews, when they plotted against the life of the Son of God.—Testimonies on Sexual Behavior, Adultery, and Divorce, p. 89.

There are tower builders in our time. Infidels construct their theories from the supposed deductions of science, and reject the revealed word of God. . . . In the professedly Christian world many turn away from the plain teachings of the Bible and build up a creed from human speculations and pleasing fables, and they point to their tower as a way to climb up to heaven. . . .<br/>
The time of God’s investigation is at hand. The Most High will come down to see that which the children of men have builded. His sovereign power will be revealed; the works of human pride will be laid low.—Conflict and Courage, p. 42.