### Adventist Heritage: Our Identity, Mission, and Message

In recent years, people have become interested in tracing their biological roots. Multibillion dollar companies have sprung up to meet the growing demand, offering quick and easy do-it-yourself DNA tests that allow people to discover what percentage of their DNA is Chinese, Northern European, Southern African, or Native American, to name just a few examples. Perhaps we’ve become so interested in our history because knowing our past has an impact on our present and future. It offers us a sense of cultural identity. Similarly, understanding our church history gives us a sense of purpose and mission both in the present moving forward. The past, present, and future cannot be separated.

The history of our church is a beautiful story that speaks to God’s goodness. The Seventh-day Adventist Church stands on the shoulders of spiritual giants, tracing its heritage beyond the Millerite movement all the way back to the Protestant Reformation. Our church formed in the mid-to-late 1800s, and while it was founded in the United States of America, it spread to all inhabited continents of the world within thirty or forty years. Shaped and driven by Scripture, the mission and identity of our church led to a global movement that planted churches, publishing houses, hospitals, and schools all around the world.

This is by no means an exhaustive study on our church’s history, but it will introduce the major characters and events as they relate to what we believe as a church and who we are. It is a humble history, but hopefully one you can relate to. Unlike the Reformation, which was led by academics, linguists, and scholars, the Advent movement was shaped by farmers, soap makers, sea captains, and young men and women with very little formal education. The average age of these early pioneers was somewhere in the mid-20s. It was a young church led by young people, almost like a start-up company full of youthful ideas and energy, a big vision, and a desire to change the world. First and foremost was a desire to correctly understand the Word of God and to be faithful to the Bible. Today, God is still searching for willing people, young and old, whose hearts are loyal to Him first. Never let age prevent you from answering God’s call. It’s still true that “The eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to show Himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is loyal to Him” (2 Chron. 16:9). May our pioneers’ youthfulness inspire us to embrace the responsibilities of God’s work early in life.

It’s important to remember that our pioneers were mortal, fallible people who made mistakes—some of them even fell away from the faith they once professed. The history of Adventist pioneers shows that the process of discovering truth can be slow, protracted, controversial, and even painful. Some of the major doctrines and teachings in God’s Word were not discovered for years or even decades. However, God was as concerned about the journey of discovering truth as He was about the ultimate destination. He waited patiently while His people were wrong, knowing that following the right process—that reaching the conclusion the right way—is the most important thing. We will see this illustrated in several of our lessons this quarter, which explores various periods of our church history and the doctrinal truths that were discovered in each. It also looks at how each of these truths impacted the church in a practical manner. In each chapter, we will study the key truths that were discovered, the major people involved, the arguments they grappled with, and the primary biblical texts they studied.

This inVerse quarter is supplemented by a special resource that can help personal studies, Sabbath School groups, or small-group Bible studies come alive. Most chapters include short documentary videos produced by the principal contributor, Adam Ramdin, that document the key stories. These videos are recorded on location, where the events happened, to help viewers better visualize our pioneers’ stories. These videos can be accessed by following the links in each lesson’s inTro or by visiting www.lineagejourney.com and navigating to Season 2. We pray that this study and these resources will help you discover your spiritual heritage and enrich your relationship with Jesus.