---
title:  In Love
date:  30/08/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 20:8–11

**In Love**

Have you ever been in love? Perhaps it was a friend with whom you shared a meaningful relationship or someone you dreamed of marrying. Relationships, whether romantic, platonic, familial, or other, are an important part of the human experience. No one is an island. We were not made to be alone. In the Garden of Eden, God said, “It is not good that man should be alone” (Gen. 2:18). This was the first thing ever described as being “not good” in all human history. All humanity, whether introverted or extroverted, was created to live in connection with others.

In our relationships, we develop close bonds with a few individuals. These people become special and we might even feel attracted to them. When that happens, our priorities in life change. The things we used to spend time on no longer have the same attraction. We might suddenly find ourselves liking things we didn’t like before because the person we’re seeking a relationship with enjoys them. One thing that changes the most in this process is how we use our time. Somehow, we no longer have time for certain things. We reorder our schedules to make time for the other person.

Throughout this process of bonding with another human, something else happens: we develop symbols of that relationship. A common one for people in love is to have “a song.” This song typifies the love that’s growing between the two individuals. When either one hears that song, their mind immediately turns to their special someone. Whether it’s the restaurant they visited on their first date or the location of their honeymoon, these things become symbolic of the love they’re experiencing. The relationship God has with humanity has these symbols too. In this lesson, we will study one of the symbols God shares with those He loves.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 20:8–11 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `