---
title:  Don’t Forget!
date:  31/08/2025
---

#### inGest

In the previous lesson, we looked at the covenant that God formed with His people at Mount Sinai (also called Mount Horeb) when He gave the Ten Commandments. These commandments have formed the core of Western law traditions ever since the Christianization of the Roman Empire beginning during the rule of Constantine in the fourth century. Somehow, through the centuries, the one command beginning with the word “Remember” is the one that Christians have largely forgotten.

Since this commandment is often misunderstood, we need to find out why this one day is so important to God and, by extension, to His people. After God spoke the law from Mount Sinai for all the Israelites to hear, Moses went up the mountain to receive from God the instructions on how to build Him a sanctuary and the tablets of stone on which God had written the Ten Commandments. In antiquity, writing something on stone was a way to ensure that what had been written would not be erased by the passage of time. Today, the oldest known writings are those that were carved into stone.

Moses was on the mountain for forty days. Before he descended, God explained the fourth commandment in more detail. This commandment was already the longest of the ten. Clearly, God wanted it to be understood. He told Moses to “Speak also to the children of Israel, saying: ‘Surely My Sabbaths you shall keep, for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you’ ” (Exod. 31:13).

A sign is an object or symbol that reminds us of something or someone. When God wanted to explain the Sabbath in more detail, He told Moses to describe it as a sign. The Sabbath is not special simply because it’s a day of rest; it’s special because of what it symbolizes. So then, what does it stand for? God said it’s a sign that He is the One who sanctifies us, that He is the One who makes us holy.

Throughout history, the Sabbath has sometimes been perceived as a sign of our good works, both by Jews and Seventh-day Adventists. But is it? No! It’s clear from what God said that it’s the exact opposite. It’s a sign that we are not holy, and that we serve a God who can make us holy. The Sabbath is a sign of Christ’s righteousness that we receive by faith. The Sabbath shows that we rest in Christ, trust Him, and prioritize our relationship with Him.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 20:8–11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What is the purpose of the Sabbath?`

`How has the Sabbath enriched your relationship with Christ?`

`Have you ever been tempted to think you’re earning your way to heaven by keeping the Sabbath? Perhaps it’s subconscious; how can you guard against and/or change such thinking?`