---
title:  Keep It Holy!
date:  01/09/2025
---

#### inTerpret

If the Sabbath is a sign of righteousness by faith, why is God insistent on us keeping it so precisely? If it’s just a sign, is it really that important? These are two common questions that many people have. The events described in Numbers 15:32–36 address this issue clearly. In this brief story, an Israelite man was found gathering wood on the Sabbath. God had been very clear that they were not to work on the Sabbath, not even to go out to collect manna to eat (Exod. 16:22–30). So, when this man went out on the Sabbath to collect wood, he did so in direct rebellion against God. The man’s actions in breaking the fourth commandment symbolized a greater problem.

To illustrate, let’s return to the idea of people falling in love. Imagine yourself in love. Let’s say the person you’re dating says to you one day, “This is our song!” If you’re serious about this person, are you likely to respond, “I don’t like that song. Let’s choose another one”? No! You’d probably agree—joyfully! Then, every time you hear the song after that, you’ll think of the person you love.

When the Israelite man chose to gather wood on the Sabbath day, he made a statement about his relationship with God to all those who saw him. That statement was, “I don’t trust the God of Moses who has been leading us. I don’t want to depend on Him.” If you think about it, you only gather wood in the desert for two basic reasons: to warm yourself at night or to cook food. God had already provided for both of those needs. He had given the pillar of fire by night to keep them warm (Exod. 13:22), and He had provided manna as food that 1. didn’t need to be cooked, and 2. would stay fresh when gathered on Friday to be eaten on Sabbath.

By going out to gather wood, the man was publicly declaring that he did not like or accept God providing for him. It’s like telling the person you love, “I don’t like your song!” It signals a broken relationship. In the desert, a person can’t survive without food and shelter. Likewise, we cannot survive outside of a relationship with God.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why isn’t Sabbath breaking punishable by death today as it was for the Israelites in biblical times?`