---
title:  Lord of the Sabbath
date:  03/09/2025
---

#### inVite

One of the strangest changes within the Jewish culture was the transformation regarding the Sabbath that happened after the time of the Babylonian exile. Before the destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, the Jews were not consistent in their Sabbath keeping (Ezek. 22:8). However, sometime after the ministry of Ezra and Nehemiah (Neh. 13), they radically transformed their Sabbath keeping so that by Jesus’ time some four hundred years later, the Pharisees had established strict requirements for Sabbath observance. Their overly rigid Sabbath keeping was the source of many conflicts between Jesus and the Jewish leaders.

Matthew 12 tells a story that epitomizes Jesus’ teachings relating to the Sabbath. Because Jesus’ disciples were hungry one Sabbath, they picked some grain as they passed through a field, shucked it in their hands, and ate it. The Pharisees confronted Jesus about this because according to their law, they believed these actions constituted working (Matt. 12:2). To their surprise, Jesus defended His disciples, and in so doing, highlighted several important points.

Jesus quoted Hosea 6:6, “I desire mercy and not sacrifice,” indicating the priority of compassion over hollow religious routines. He then supported this old idea with a bold, new claim: “For the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath” (Matt. 12:8). With this statement, Jesus placed Himself above the Sabbath. Here, He claimed to be the Creator of the world. Matthew then connects this story directly with a Sabbath healing. A man with a withered hand was at the synagogue later that same Sabbath (vv. 9, 10). Jesus desired to heal the man, but He knew the Pharisees were waiting to accuse Him of breaking the Sabbath. Jesus reminded His audience that any of them would help a sheep that had fallen into a pit on the Sabbath. From this example, Jesus concluded, “Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath” (v. 12).

Many people today who want to keep the Sabbath holy struggle with deciding what can be done on the Sabbath. Jesus’ statement provides guidance. It’s lawful to do good on the Sabbath. However, that may not answer all the questions regarding what should be done on the Sabbath. Other Bible passages do establish principles for Sabbath keeping, but perhaps the Bible doesn’t spell out every detail about Sabbath keeping because the Sabbath is a sign. If we remember the principle of the Sabbath serving as a symbol or sign, then when we encounter specific areas that the Bible doesn’t speak on, we can ask, “Does this activity symbolize my relationship with God?” Ultimately, what Jesus desires is a relationship with humanity, one based on trust in Him as the Lamb of God. The Sabbath provides a weekly opportunity to celebrate and strengthen that relationship.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 20:8–11 again and look for Jesus.`

`What significance do you see in Jesus identifying Himself as the Lord of the Sabbath?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again`

`Prayer Response:`