---
title:  Senseless Wall of Superstition
date:  04/09/2025
---

#### inSight

“If excessive hunger excused David for violating even the holiness of the sanctuary, and made his act guiltless, how much more excusable was the simple act of the disciples in plucking the grain and eating it upon the Sabbath day. Jesus would teach His disciples and His enemies that the service of God was first of all; and, if fatigue and hunger attended the work, it was right to satisfy the wants of humanity, even upon the Sabbath day. That holy institution was not given to interfere with the needs of our being, bringing pain and discomfort, instead of blessing. ‘The Sabbath was made for man,’ to give him rest and peace, and remind him of the work of his Creator, not to be a grievous burden.

“The work done in the temple upon the Sabbath was in harmony with the law; yet the same labor, if employed in ordinary business, would be a violation of it. The act of plucking and eating the grain to sustain the bodily strength, to be used in the service of God, was right and lawful. Jesus then crowned His argument by declaring Himself the ‘Lord of the Sabbath,’—One above all question and above all law. This Infinite Judge acquits the disciples from blame, appealing to the very statutes they are accused of violating.

“But Jesus did not let the matter drop without administering a rebuke to His enemies. He declared that in their blindness they had mistaken the object of the Sabbath. Said He: ‘But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless.’ He then contrasted their many heartless rites with the truthful integrity, and tender love that should characterize the true worshipers of God: ‘For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt-offerings. But they like men have transgressed the covenant; there have they dealt treacherously against Me.’

“Jesus was reared among this people, so marked with bigotry and prejudice; and He therefore knew that in healing upon the Sabbath day, He would be regarded as a transgressor of the law. He was aware that the Pharisees would seize upon such acts with great indignation, and thereby seek to influence the people against Him. He knew that they would use these works of mercy as strong arguments to affect the minds of the masses, who had all their lives been bound by the Jewish restrictions and exactions. Nevertheless He was not prevented by this knowledge from breaking down the senseless wall of superstition that barricaded the Sabbath, and teaching men that charity and benevolence were lawful upon all days” (Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, November 30, 1876).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, what can you do to place more meaning on the Sabbath and everything it symbolizes?`

`How does knowing God’s purpose for the Sabbath change your mindset about the Sabbath?`

`Review your memory verse. How did it apply to your life this week?`