---
title:  The Bible or Plato?
date:  01/10/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 2**

**The Bible or Plato?**

We begin our study in this lesson with the creation of humanity as recorded in Gen. 2:7. The text contains three successive ideas. First, God composed the physical body from the dust of the ground (cf. Isa. 64:8). Next, He infused the breath of life into the nostrils of the lifeless body. Finally, when body and breath came together, Adam _became_ a living soul. Thus, according to the creation account, God did not _give_ Adam a soul, and Adam did not _have_ a soul—Adam _was_ a soul. The soul was not some pre-existent entity that God implanted in the body of Adam. The soul was Adam in his totality—physically, mentally, and spiritually. The soul is not a _part_ of a person; it is the total person.

The words soul and spirit were common in the Greek world, and the same words appear frequently in the New Testament (NT). However, they do not necessarily carry the same meaning in the NT as they did in the Greek world. That is to say, we must not determine the meaning of these words by how Greek philosophers such as Plato and Socrates understood them, but rather by their cognate Hebrew words in the Old Testament (OT). When we study the doctrine of the state of the dead, the connotation and meaning of words matter. Therefore, in this lesson, we will study three OT Hebrew words and their cognate Greek words in the NT. The OT words are _nephesh_ (“soul,” “life,” “person”), _ruach_ (“spirit”), and _neshamah_ (“breath”), and their NT cognates are _psyche_ (“soul,” “life,” “person”), _pneuma_ (“spirit”), and _pnoe_ (“breath”).

#### inScribe

Read Genesis 2 from the translation of your choice. Write out Genesis 2:7. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `