---
title:  Breath, Spirit, and Soul
date:  02/10/2022
---

#### inGest

The “spirit” (_ruach_) or “breath” (_neshamah_) is the life force that makes the body operational. These OT words sometimes appear in synonymous parallelism such as in Job 27:3, where the word _breath_ in the first line is parallel to _spirit_ in the second. God gives “breath” to people on the earth and “spirit” to those who walk on it (Isa. 42:5). Both “spirit” and “breath” are in the nostrils through which we breathe (Gen. 2:7; Isaiah 2:22; Job 27:3). When God takes away the “breath,” people die and return to their dust, but when He sends forth His “Spirit” they are created (Ps. 104:29, 30).

The NT word “spirit” (_pneuma_) parallels the cognate word (_ruach_) in the OT. The body without the “spirit” is dead (James 2:26); therefore when Jesus gave up His “spirit,” He died (John 19:30). When the beast from the abyss slew the two witnesses, the “spirit” (_pneuma_) came into their lifeless bodies and they lived (Rev. 11:7–9, 11). The uncommon NT word _pnoe_ (Acts 17:25) means “breath.”

The OT word “soul” (_nephesh_) is translated “soul,” “life,” and “person.” Jacob took seventy _persons_ to Egypt (Gen. 46:27). The _life_ of the flesh is in the blood, because the blood takes the life-giving oxygen to the entire system (Lev. 17:11). Elijah complained that Jezebel was seeking to take his life (1 Kings 19:10). David pleaded for God to deliver his _life_ from the sword (Ps. 22:20). At the resurrection God will redeem the _life_ from the power of the grave (Ps. 49:15). The word _soul_ appears four times in Ezekiel 18:4, and a proper translation would be, “Behold, all lives are Mine; the _life_ of the father as well as the _life_ of the son is Mine; the person who sins shall die” (literal translation). The soul is not immortal, because it can die! It goes down to the grave or pit at death, not to heaven (Ps. 30:3).

The NT word “soul” (_psyche_) parallels its use in the OT. As applied to the nature of man, the word simply means “life” or “person.” Paul assured the shipwrecked passengers that no one would lose their _life_, and all 276 _persons_ survived (Acts 27:22, 37). Joseph took Jesus to Egypt because Herod was seeking His _life_ (Matt. 2:19, 20). Jesus came to give His _life_ a ransom for many (Matt. 20:28), and the Good Shepherd gives His _life_ for His sheep (John 10:11). Paul and Barnabas risked their lives for the name of Jesus (Acts 15:26). Three thousand _persons_ were saved on the Day of Pentecost (Acts 2:41), and Paul admonished every Christian _person_ in Rome to be subject to the civil powers (Rom. 13:1). _Souls_ can die because they can be saved from death (James 5:20).

We use the word in the sense of “person” when we say, “Not a soul showed up for the meeting,” “We baptized one hundred souls,” and “I pity that poor soul.” In the Bible, the word _immortal_ never qualifies the words _soul_ and _spirit_, and not once is consciousness apart from the body attributed to them.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Genesis 2. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`Why is an accurate understanding of these terms so important?`

`How does the larger culture today confuse these terms?`