---
title:  ‘Soul’ Texts
date:  03/10/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Because Genesis 35:18 (KJV; cf. 1 Kings 17:17, 21, 22, KJV) states that Rachel’s soul (_nephesh_) departed as she died, some Christians assume that Rachel’s _immortal soul_ departed to heaven. This is not what the text says, however. Contemporary versions better explain the meaning of the expression “as her soul departed.” The NIV translates “as she breathed her last,” and the NET has it, “with her dying breath.” It would be proper to translate it thus: “as her life departed.”

The Bible teaches that the human person is a unity capable of physical, mental, and spiritual development. The Greek philosophers were renowned for creating dichotomies. In contrast, Scripture is holistic, teaching that the human person is an indissoluble unity of three inseparable dimensions that function together in harmony, each dependent upon the other. First Thessalonians 5:23 seems to teach that humanity is “spirit, soul, and body”: “Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely; and may your whole _spirit_, _soul_, and _body_ be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.”

Does 1 Thessalonians 5:23 really teach that the human person is composed of three _separable_ parts, two of which can live independently from the body? No. Paul did believe that the human person has three dimensions. The text does not say, however, that one part can function independently of the others. The emphasis falls on the wholeness of the person. The _physical_ brain makes it possible to develop mentally, and the _mind_ makes it possible to develop a deep _spiritual_ relationship with the Lord.

There is no reason for this text to confuse us. No one denies that human nature has three dimensions—physical, mental, and spiritual. Nowhere does the Bible tell us, however, that one can function or live independently of the others. Nowhere does any text say that the soul or spirit dimension is conscious and immortal and leaves the body at death. The emphasis is on wholeness, as indicated by the words “completely” and “whole.” The human being needs a physical brain to think, and with the physical brain he or she is able to develop a strong relationship with the Lord.

Ellen White was a firm believer in the unity of the person, and yet she could speak of three dimensions in human nature: body, soul, and spirit. “Ignorance, pleasure loving, and sinful habits, corrupting _soul_, _body_, and _spirit_, make the world full of moral leprosy; a deadly moral malaria is destroying thousands and tens of thousands.” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_ (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1952), 329, emphasis supplied.) The Seventh-day Adventist university in Medellín, Colómbia, has a triangular monument in front of the administration building, and one word appears on each side of it: “hand,” “mind,” and “heart.” Thus, true education is “the harmonious development of the _physical_, the _mental_, and the _spiritual_ powers.” (Ellen G. White, _Education_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1903), 13.)

`What questions emerge after reading Genesis 2? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How aware are you of the development of the physical, mental, and spiritual dimensions in daily life?`