---
title:  Gain that is Loss
date:  05/10/2022
---

#### inVite

A comparison of Matthew 16:26 with Luke 9:25 reveals that the soul does not reside in a person but rather is the person. Thus, while the Gospel of Matthew warns a person not to gain the whole world and lose his “soul,” Luke warned against gaining the whole world and losing oneself. The comparison indicates that the soul is “yourself.”

Jesus once told the story of a farmer who built ever-larger barns to store what he perceived to be his goods. Instead of sharing, he hoarded his wealth, looking forward to years of prosperity and leisure (Luke 12:16–21). God told him that, on that very night, his soul would be demanded of him. The use of the word soul three times in the KJV is better rendered in the NIV with the words myself, you, and life: “And I’ll say to myself [KJV: “my soul”], ‘You [KJV: “soul”] have plenty of good things laid up for many years. Take life easy; eat, drink, and be merry.’ But God said to him, ‘You fool! This very night your life [KJV: “soul”] will be demanded from you’ ” (vv. 19, 20, NIV).

In our materialistic world, people are obsessed with the accumulation of material wealth, but what can they take with them at death? Can they give houses, lands, money, stocks and bonds, cars, clothing, and adult toys in exchange for their life? The Bible portrays the sad result of selfishness. Ananias and Sapphira held back the money they promised to give for the Lord’s work, and as a result they gave up their “soul” or “life” (Acts 5:5, 10; cf. Acts 12:23, KJV). The KJV translates the word exepsychen as “gave up the ghost,” but the NKJV more accurately renders it as “breathed his/her last.” It is perfectly proper to translate exepsychen as “gave up his/her life.” What a contrast they make with Paul and Silas, who risked their life for the name of Jesus Christ (Acts 15:26).

Hebrews 11 describes the “honor roll” of faith. One of the notable figures on the list is Moses, who as a young man was in line to be the Pharaoh. Moses preferred to be reproached for Christ’s sake than enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season: “By faith Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt; for he looked to the reward” (Heb. 11:24–26, emphasis supplied).

If Moses had chosen to remain in Egypt He would be a mummy in an Egyptian sarcophagus. Instead, he is now in heaven. The apostle Paul wrote that “if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable” (1 Cor. 15:19). Paul wouldn’t have made such a statement if he believed that humans have eternal “souls.” What we have in this life is temporal, but what we will have in the future life with Christ is eternal (cf. 2 Cor. 4:16–18).

` `