---
title:  The Soul That Sinneth
date:  06/10/2022
---

#### inSight

“It has been shown me that every church among us needs the deep movings of the Spirit of God. O, we would point men to the cross of Calvary. We would bid them look upon Him whom their sins have pierced. We would bid them to behold the Redeemer of the world suffering the penalty of their transgression of the law of God. The verdict is that ‘the soul that sinneth it shall die.’ [Ezekiel 18:4.] But on the cross the sinner sees the only begotten of the Father, dying in his stead, and giving the transgressor life.” (Ellen G. White, _Christian Education_ (Battle Creek, MI: International Tract Society, 1894), 95.)

“Satan commenced his deception in Eden. He said to Eve, ‘Ye shall not surely die.’ This was Satan’s first lesson upon the immortality of the soul, and he has carried on this deception from that time to the present, and will carry it on until the captivity of God’s children shall be turned. I was pointed to Adam and Eve in Eden. They partook of the forbidden tree, and then the flaming sword was placed around the tree of life, and they were driven from the garden, lest they should partake of the tree of life, and be immortal sinners. The fruit of this tree was to perpetuate immortality. I heard an angel ask, ‘Who of the family of Adam have passed that flaming sword, and have partaken of the tree of life?’ I heard another angel answer, ‘Not one of the family of Adam has passed that flaming sword, and partaken of that tree; therefore, there is not an immortal sinner.’ The soul that sinneth, it shall die an everlasting death—a death from which there will be no hope of resurrection; and then the wrath of God will be appeased.” (Ellen G. White, _Early Writings_ (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1882), 218.)

“The only one who promised Adam life in disobedience was the great deceiver. And the declaration of the serpent to Eve in Eden—‘Ye shall not surely die’—was the first sermon ever preached upon the immortality of the soul. Yet this declaration, resting solely upon the authority of Satan, is echoed from the pulpits of Christendom and is received by the majority of mankind as readily as it was received by our first parents. The divine sentence, ‘The soul that sinneth, it shall die’ (Ezekiel 18:20), is made to mean: The soul that sinneth, it shall not die, but live eternally. We cannot but wonder at the strange infatuation which renders men so credulous concerning the words of Satan and so unbelieving in regard to the words of God.” (Ellen G. White, _Darkness before Dawn_ (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 1997), 14, 15.)

`After this week’s study of the chapter, what are you convicted of personally?`

`What are other practical applications outside of your personal ones?`