---
title:  Happily Ever After?
date:   25/09/2016
---


Oftentimes children’s stories end with the line, “And they lived hap- pily ever after.” In some languages, it’s almost a cliché. The whole idea is that whatever the drama—a kidnapped princess, a nasty wolf, an evil king—the hero and perhaps his new wife triumph in the end.

That’s how the book of Job ends, at least at first glance. After all the trials and calamities that befell him, Job ends on what could be described only as a relatively positive note.

```Read Job 42:10–17, the final texts of the entire book. What do they tell us about how Job ended his days?```

No question: were you to ask someone about a book of the Bible that ended well for the main character, a book that had a “happily ever after” ending, many would name the book of Job.

After all, look at all that Job had as the story closes. Family and friends, who weren’t around during the trials (with the exception of Eliphaz, Bildad, Zophar, Elihu, and Job’s wife), come, and they comfort him. They were generous, too, giving him money. As the story ended, Job had twice as much as he had at the beginning of the story, at least in terms of material wealth (compare Job 42:12 with Job 1:3). He had ten children, seven sons and three daughters, to replace the seven sons and three daughters who died (see Job 1:2, 18, 19), and in all the land no women were “found so fair as the daughters of Job” (Job 42:15), something not said about his first ones. And this man who had been so sure that death was right before him lived on another 140 years. “So Job died, being old and full of days” (Job 42:17). The phrase “full of days” in Hebrew (sometimes translated, interestingly enough, “full of years”) is used to describe the last days of Abraham (Gen. 25:8), Isaac (Gen. 35:29), and David (1 Chron. 29:28). It gives the idea of someone in a relatively good and happy place at the time of a decidedly unhappy event: death.
    
```We all like stories with happy endings, don’t we? What are some stories with happy endings that you know of? What lessons can we take from them?```