---
title:  The Resurrection and the Life
date:   29/09/2016
---

```Read Job 14:14, 15. What question is Job asking, and how, in his own way, does he answer it?```

One of the themes in the book of Job deals with the question of death. How could it not? Any book that looks at human suffering would, of course, have to look at death, the source of so much of our suffering. Job asks if the dead will live again, and then he says that he waits for his change to come. The Hebrew word for “wait” also implies the idea of hope. It’s not just waiting for something, it is hoping for it.

And what he was hoping for was his “change.” This word comes from a Hebrew term that can give the idea of “renewal” or “replace- ment.” Often it is the changing of a garment. Though the word itself is broad, given the context—that of asking what “renewal” comes after death, a “renewal” that Job hopes for—what else could this change be but a change from death to life, the time God shall “desire the work of Your [God’s] hands” (Job 14:15, NKJV)?

Of course, our great hope, the great promise that death will not be the end, comes to us from the life, death, and ministry of Jesus. “The [New Testament] teaches that Christ has defeated death, man- kind’s bitterest foe, and that God will raise the dead to a final judg- ment. But this doctrine becomes central to biblical faith . . . after the resurrection of Christ, for it gains its validation in Christ’s triumph over death.”—John E. Hartley, The Book of Job, New International Commentary on the Old Testament, Accordance electronic ed. (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1988), p. 237.
   
```“Jesus said to her, ‘I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in Me, though he may die, he shall live’ ” (John 11:25, NKJV). What is Jesus telling us here that gives us a hope and confidence about “the end”? That is, what do we know that Job didn’t know?```