---
title:  Living as a Community
date:  24/08/2019
---

**Introduction**: Acts 2:46, 47

I have had the privilege to live in some of the high-end residential areas of Nairobi, the capital city of my country. I have realized that in each of those communities, there is a presence of people in need, and I believe that is the case not only in my country but also in other parts of the world.

Nearly every time we drive into the gated community, we spot people begging literally across the highway, perhaps for what might be their only meal for the day. In the health facilities nearby, people are sick and in need of compassion, love, and care. The correctional facilities of our country have inmates who need spiritual, mental, and physical food.

These circumstances remind us of one thing: there is a great need to live in a community rather than as an individual. We need to respond to the needs of the people and the environment around us, which will fulfill our commission as a church community.

The idea of ministering to the needs of those around us is not something new in Christian circles. In the Old Testament, God used the prophets to deliver the same message of the need to help the less fortunate members of the society (cf. Isa. 1:17). In the New Testament, Christ initiated the Great Commission, which remains the axis of evangelism, witnessing, and service for all Christians around the world. Even in the twenty-first century, governments and institutions recognize the practice of social justice. By upholding the idea of living as a community, we can create a new society in which everyone is “praising God and having favor with all the people” (Acts 2:47).

The disciples practiced social justice even after Christ went to heaven. In fulfilling the objective of the Great Commission, they helped spread the Word of God to various parts of the world, responding to the needs of the people they met in the course of their ministry.

For Christians in this era, community service is a call to use what we have to meet the practical needs of the less fortunate members of our society. Some of the recipients of community service include children, vulnerable senior citizens, people with disabilities, and the natural environment.

Learning from the work of the apostles, we can also develop communities in which the Word of God thrives as we meet the practical needs of the unfortunate.

---

_Regina Onyango, Homa Bay, Kenya_