---
title:  The Scope of Witnessing and Community Service
date:  27/08/2019
---

**Evidence**: Acts 1:8

On May 4, 2011, the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) received a Best Practice Award for empowering rural women through its community projects.

Speaking during the ceremony held in Silver Spring, Maryland, Ken Flemmer, then ADRA International vice president for programs, said, “The evidence of this project’s impact confirms we have developed a successful project model, and we look forward to implement it across similar cultural settings.”1

Social justice includes several different activities. Empowering disadvantaged women, for instance. In addition, we need to understand that the practice of community service is in line with our Lord’s command to “be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth” (Acts 1:8). In fulfilling this grand assignment, the Holy Spirit is to guide us in doing what is right and to convict us when we do wrong.

During His ministry on earth, Christ recruited followers by meeting their needs. He healed the sick and fed the hungry. Above all, Christ provided the spiritual food and water that could satisfy hunger and thirst forever.

After His death and ascension to heaven, Jesus sent the Holy Spirit to guide His followers in executing activities that promoted social justice. In the footsteps of Christ, the apostles healed the sick, helped widows and orphans, and ministered to the spiritual needs of the people. Therefore, meeting the practical needs of others is the duty of every Christian because it goes together with the commission to evangelize the world before Christ’s second coming.

God has given us enough resources to help us effectively carry out community service. We can deploy skills, our time and energy, monetary resources, or material donations to make a difference in the lives of people across the world. True fellowship requires that we work together as children and witnesses of Christ, such that even as we carry out community service, we must guard our relationship with Him to remain “unspotted from the world” (James 1:27).

**React**

`1. What can we do to promote social justice?`

`2. How can we use the skills we acquire from our learning institutions to make a difference in our communities?`

---

<sup>1. Christina Zaiback, “ADRA Receives Best Practice Award for Women Empowerment Project,” ADRA, May 12, 2011, https://adra.org/best-practice-award-for-adra/.</sup>

_Mark Gift, Nairobi, Kenya_