---
title:  Benefits of Engaging in Community Service
date:  28/08/2019
---

**How-to**: 2 Cor. 8:7–9

Youthfulness comes with several advantages. We have the time; we have the skills that we acquire from our education and talents that we can use to carry out activities for the good of others in our communities.

While we expect no payment for meeting the practical needs of others, we can experience several benefits from participating in community service. The Bible teaches that Christ, “though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that you through His poverty might be rich” (2 Cor. 8:7–9, NKJV).

Making a difference in the lives of others comes with a fulfilling satisfaction that money cannot buy. By addressing the temporal needs of the less fortunate in our societies, we give them the opportunity to draw closer to Christ, especially when they see the good deeds we perform. Above all, Christ is our example when it comes to community service (Matt. 8:14, 15; 14:14).

And as we seek to draw more souls to Jesus, we get something in return. Doing good is a win-win situation for the provider and the recipient. Here are some of the benefits of serving others:

The opportunity to make a difference. Participating in meeting the needs of others gives us the opportunity to know that we are doing something to improve someone’s life and make our community a better place.

Experience personal growth. A Christian’s life is one of growth and development. By engaging in activities that help us meet the needs of others, we cultivate skills in organization, responsibility, and compassion, which are all qualities of Christ. The same qualities are also important for young adults to build their careers, family, and overall future life.

Acquire hands-on experience. By meeting the needs of others through community service, we can acquire hands-on experience in various activities such as painting, construction, customer service, or medical care.

These can go a long way to boost our résumés.

Make new friends. Importantly, being close to people in need and helping them to meet those needs enables us to make new friends, many of whom we may treasure for the rest of our lives.

**React**

`1. What personal benefits are derived from meeting the needs of others?`

`2. How can we make a difference in communities we cannot reach physically?`

---

_Emily Grace, Homa Bay, Kenya_