---
title:  It’s About Serving Christ
date:  29/08/2019
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 25:38–40

The story of the rich young man (Matt. 19:16–30) paints a picture of how important it is for a Christian to practice social justice.

The material possessions and resources we have in this world are for us to use to improve the lives of others. We often think that our possessions belong to us alone, without recognizing that God, who has endowed us with the resources, also created our brothers and sisters who do not have enough.

If we maintain the notion that our wealth is for us alone, we miss the blessings of heaven. The Bible teaches us, “He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack” (Prov. 28:27).

God requires His children to cultivate and embrace the Spirit of giving so that we can uplift the less fortunate members of our society. When we love our neighbors (1 Pet. 1:22) and respond to their needs, we reflect the love of Christ embedded in His habit of compassion upon the less fortunate and the suffering. The act of giving to the poor or helping the sick should come from the heart, without expecting any favor in return.

The story of the rich young man illustrates the point that many people are unwilling to let go of their worldly possessions, especially when it comes to helping others. However, Christ says that whoever forsakes material possessions and worldly riches for His sake shall inherit eternal life (Matt. 19:29). The little acts of kindness that we show to “the least of these” constitute our service for Christ. Each day is an opportunity to make a difference in the life of another person who is struggling with life in one way or another. The apostles learned the habit of giving and sharing from Christ, and He expects us to do the same in our generation.

Oscar Wilde purportedly said, “The smallest act of kindness is worth more than the grandest intention.” Today, you can offer a small act of kindness to change your community. And if all of us can do that, we can change the world.

**React**

`1. What are some of the little acts of kindness that you can offer to show that you care about the lives of others?`

`2. It might be easy for an individual to show compassion, but how can we do the same as a church, with so many people of different backgrounds under one roof ?`

`3. Whom do you consider “the least of these” in your community?`

---

_Nelly Achieng’, Homa Bay, Kenya_