---
title:  Touching Lives
date:  30/08/2019
---

**Exploration**: Acts 20:35

**Conclude**

As Seventh-day Adventist young adults, it behooves us to touch lives so as to create a community in which everyone contributes to the needs of other people. Christ left for us the mantle of service, which we must hold high until He comes to take us home. When our hearts fill with compassion, we can passionately reach out to touch the lives of the people around us through material donations, service, and more important, drawing them closer to Christ. This week’s lesson is a challenge for us to put our faith into practice.

**Consider**

- Volunteering to teach a foreign language or creative class to young pupils in your community. How does this service fit into the context of this week’s lesson?
- Starting a YouTube channel on which you share teachings about social justice and its benefits. Include as many benefits as you can.
- Forming a community support group with like-minded young people, in which you go out once a week to visit the less fortunate members of your community. Think of material donations or service, which you can deliver to improve their situations.
- Reading Acts 9:36–42. On a piece of paper, make a column with the headline, “What I Can Do to Support My Community.” List all the things you can do and put them into practice.
- Creating Bible tracts that you can share with members of your church. Include stories of people who did or are doing good to improve the lives of the poor and the suffering in various communities. At the bottom of each tract, share Romans 12:21 as a memory text.
- Visiting specific places in your community such as hospitals, aged care homes, or prisons to identify with the people in these situations. In addition to praying and sharing Jesus with them, what can you do to meet their practical needs?
- Using digital animation technology to give life to the following characters: Mercy, Sympathy, Compassion, Love. How do these qualities help you contribute better to social justice?


**Connect**

Deuteronomy 14:28, 29; Psalm 41:1–3; Matthew 5:3–11.

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 31, “The Sermon on the Mount”; chap. 70, “The Least of These My Brethren.”

---

_George Otieno, Migori, Kenya_