---
title:  Unnamed Individual Servant 
date:  22/02/2021
---

`What is the role and character of God’s unnamed servant, whom God chooses and on whom He puts His Spirit? Isa. 42:1–7.`

Choose the best answer or combination of answers:

1. He provides justice for the nations.
2. He accomplishes his goals quietly and gently, but successfully.
3. He is a teacher.
4. He serves as a covenant between God and the people.
5. He gives light/hope by healing blindness and liberating prisoners.
6. All of the above.

`How does the role and character of this servant compare with that of the “shoot from the stump of Jesse,” on whom the Spirit of the Lord also rests (Isaiah 11)?`

As in Isaiah 42, the Davidic ruler of Isaiah 11 acts in harmony with God, providing justice and deliverance for the oppressed, as well as wisdom and knowledge of God. We found that this “shoot” and “root” of Jesse is the Messiah, the divine child of Isaiah 9:6, 7, who also brings “peace for the throne of David and his kingdom” with “justice and with righteousness” (Isa. 9:7, NRSV). The servant in Isaiah 42 is, obviously, the Messiah.

`How does the New Testament identify the servant of Isaiah 42:1–7, who provides justice? Matt. 12:15–21.`

Matthew 12 quotes from Isaiah 42 and applies it to the quiet healing ministry of Jesus, God’s beloved Son, in whom He delights (Isa. 42:1; Matt. 3:16, 17; Matt. 17:5). It is He whose ministry reestablishes God’s covenant connection with His people (Isa. 42:6, Dan. 9:27).

Jesus and His disciples gained justice for people by delivering them from suffering, ignorance of God, and bondage to evil spirits, caused by Satan’s oppression (Luke 10:19). Then Jesus died to ratify the “new covenant” (Matt. 26:28, NKJV) and to gain justice for the world by casting out Satan, the foreigner who had usurped the position of “ ‘ruler of this world’ ” (John 12:31–33, NRSV).

`Look at Isaiah 42:1–4, the depiction of Christ. Spend some time dwelling on the life of Jesus. What specific characteristics of His ministry so aptly fulfilled this prophecy? What lessons can we learn about how we should be ministering to others, as well?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When we want a deep problem to study, let us fix our minds on the most marvelous thing that ever took place in earth or heaven—the incarnation of the Son of God. God gave His Son to die for sinful human beings a death of ignominy and shame. He who was Commander in the heavenly courts laid aside His royal robe and kingly crown, and clothing His divinity with humanity, came to this world to stand at the head of the human race as the pattern-man. He humbled Himself to suffer with the race, to be afflicted in all their afflictions. . . .

The Son of God came voluntarily to accomplish the work of atonement. There was no obligatory yoke upon Him; for He was independent and above all law.

The angels, as God’s intelligent messengers, were under the yoke of obligation; no personal sacrifice of theirs could atone for fallen man. Christ alone was free from the claims of the law to undertake the redemption of the sinful race. He had power to lay down His life and to take it up again. “Being in the form of God,” He “thought it not robbery to be equal with God.”—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 7, p. 904.

As the high priest laid aside his pontifical dress, and officiated in the white linen dress of a common priest, so Christ emptied Himself, and took the form of a servant, and offered sacrifice, Himself the priest, Himself the victim. As the high priest, after performing his service in the holy of holies, came forth to the waiting congregation in his pontifical robes, so Christ will come the second time clothed in glorious garments of the whitest white, “such as no fuller on earth can whiten them.” He will come in His own glory, and in the glory of His Father, as King of kings and Lord of lords, and all the angelic host will escort Him on His way.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 1, pp. 1111, 1112.

Christ has entered the world as Satan’s destroyer, and the Redeemer of the captives bound by his power. He would leave an example in His own victorious life for man to follow and overcome the temptations of Satan. As soon as Christ entered the wilderness of temptation, His visage changed. . . . The weight of the sins of the world was pressing His soul, and His countenance expressed unutterable sorrow, a depth of anguish that fallen man had never realized. He felt the overwhelming tide of woe that deluged the world. He realized the strength of indulged appetite and of unholy passion that controlled the world, which had brought upon man inexpressible suffering. . . .

As man could not, in his human strength, resist the power of Satan’s temptations, Jesus volunteered to undertake the work, and bear the burden for man, and overcome the power of appetite in his behalf.—_Selected Messages_, book 1, pp. 271, 272.