---
title:  Grieving and Resisting the Spirit
date:   11/03/2017
---

### Grieving and Resisting the Spirit

### Read for This Week’s Study
Acts 7:51; Heb. 10:24, 25; Eph. 4:25–5:2; 1 Thess. 5:19–21; Mark 3:28, 29.

> <p>Memory Text</p>“And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption” (Ephesians 4:30, NKJV). 

The Holy Spirit has the unique ability to lead sinners to an awareness of their true sinful states. He also awakens in us a desire to accept Jesus and His forgiveness of our sins. The Holy Spirit possesses a matchless power to make us overcomers and to enable us to reflect the beautiful character of Jesus. 

At the same time, this powerful and mighty Holy Spirit can be resisted by feeble sinners. He does not force Himself upon us.

Sin is very alluring, very appealing. Yet, it is highly deceptive and leads to death. It is diametrically opposed to God and His pure holiness and goodness. Reflecting this divine holiness, the Holy Spirit is opposed to sin in every form, and He is grieved when we sin and are unwilling to give it up. As powerful as the Holy Spirit is, His positive impact can be quenched, and we can resist Him when we continue in our sinful lives. The Gospels even tell us that there is one sin that cannot be forgiven: blasphemy against the Spirit (Matt. 12:31, 32). 

This week we will study biblical aspects that deal with grieving, quenching, and resisting the Holy Spirit, and with the sin that will not be forgiven.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 18._