---
title:  Deuteronomy In The New Testament
date:  11/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 4:1–11; Deuteronomy 10:17–19; Galatians 3:1–14; Deuteronomy 18:15–19.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But Jesus answered him, ‘The holy writings say, “Man cannot live on bread only. He needs to live by every word that God says” ’ ” (Matthew 4:4, WE).

THE NEW TESTAMENT is filled with Old Testament verses. New Testament writers often used quotes from the Old Testament to show that their writings came from God. Jesus Himself answered questions by saying, “ ‘The holy writings say’ ” (Matthew 4:4, WE) and “ ‘What the holy writings say will come true [happen]’ ” (Mark 14:49, WE). Jesus said these words to show that His message came from the Old Testament. When Jesus met two of His followers on the road to Emmaus, how did Jesus show them who He was? Did He do a miracle? No. “Jesus explained to them what was said about himself in all the Scriptures [Old Testament]” (Luke 24:27, NIrV).

The New Testament writers used stories, quotes, and special messages from the Old Testament to explain their writings. Many of the New Testament writers often used quotes from Deuteronomy, Psalms, and Isaiah. The writers of Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Romans, Galatians, 1 and 2 Corinthians, Hebrews, some of the New Testament letters, and Revelation all use quotes from Deuteronomy.

This week, we will look at some New Testament examples of quotes from Deuteronomy. We will ask, What present truth do these verses teach us? You will remember that present truth is the Bible truth we need most for our time.