---
title:  “ ‘the Holy Writings Say’ ” 
date:  12/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Matthew 4:1–11. How does Jesus answer Satan in the desert? What important lesson does His answer teach us?`

Jesus does not argue with Satan. Jesus answers Satan with Bible verses. Jesus knows that “God's word is living and full of power. It is more sharp than any sword” (Hebrews 4:12, WE). All the answers Jesus gives Satan come from Deuteronomy. Do you see that Jesus in the desert answers Satan with verses given to Israel when they were in the desert, too?

Look at the first time Satan tries to get Jesus to sin. Jesus is upset that Satan tries to get Him to doubt God and His words. So, Jesus answers Satan with sharp words from Deuteronomy 8:3. In this verse, Moses tells the Israelites to remember everything the Lord did for them in the desert. God gave them manna. Manna was special food that fell from the sky each morning. “ ‘Why did the Lord do this? Because he wanted you to know that it is not just bread that keeps people alive. People’s lives depend on what the Lord says’ ” (Deuteronomy 8:3, ERV).

What happens when Satan tries to get Jesus to sin a second time? Again, Jesus answers Satan with Deuteronomy 6:16. In this verse, Moses tells the people to remember how they turned against God at Massah (read Exodus 17:1–7). Moses says, “ ‘Do not test the Lord your God [demand that God show you that He is good], as you put Him to the test at Massah’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:16, NLV). The word written as “test” also can mean “prove” or “put something to the test.” The Lord already showed His people again and again His power and love. He showed them how much He wanted to take care of them. But when trouble came, the people cried, “ ‘Is the Lord among us or not?’ ” (Exodus 17:7, NIrV).

What happens the third time? Satan tries to get Jesus to sin? Satan wants Jesus to bow down and worship him. Does Jesus argue with Satan this time? Not at all. Again, Jesus answers Satan with a verse from Deuteronomy. This verse warns Israel not to turn away from God and worship false gods. Israel should, “ ‘worship the Lord your God. He is the only one you should serve’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:13, NIrV).

`How can our study of the Bible help us to show Jesus and His love more fully to people? How can the Bible give us more strength to say no to Satan?`