---
title:  God Loves Everyone The Same 
date:  13/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Deuteronomy 10, Moses wants the people to see why they should show faith in God and obey Him. So, Moses tells the people their history again. What does Moses say next?

`Read Deuteronomy 10:17–19. What important message does Moses give to the people in these verses? Why is this message important to the church today?`

Moses tells the people about the God who loves them. Do you see the words “ ‘to him everyone is the same” (Deuteronomy 10:17, ERV)? This saying come from a word picture in the Hebrew language. The word picture really means “lift up faces.” What does that saying mean? In Bible times, sometimes kings and judges were not fair. They judged people because of the way they looked. Deuteronomy shows us that God does not judge people that way. God is fair to everyone. Jesus showed us this important truth about God when He came to this earth. Jesus always was kind to everyone. Jesus also was kind to people that nobody thought were important.

`Read Acts 10:34; Romans 2:11; Galatians 2:6; Ephesians 6:9; Colossians 3:25; and 1 Peter 1:17. How do these verses show us the Bible truth in Deuteronomy 10:17?`

Paul talks about many different things in these verses. In Ephesians, Paul warns masters to be kind to their slaves. In Romans, Paul says God saves both Jews and non-Jews alike. But one thing is the same in all these verses. The verses talk about the idea in Deuteronomy that God loves everyone the same. God is fair to everyone. This is good news. If God behaves this way, then we should, too.

Paul in Romans tells us more about this Good News. God views us all the same. We all are sinners. We all need God to show us His mercy and save us. The good news is that God offers every one of us His saving mercy in Jesus.

`Do you show more love to some people than to other people? Why does the Cross show us this behavior is wrong?`