---
title:  Hung On A Tree 
date:  14/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Galatians 3:1–14. What does Paul say in these verses? Why is this message important for us today? How does Paul use Deuteronomy 27:26 and Deuteronomy 21:22, 23 to help us understand his message?`

Sadly, many Christians use Galatians as an excuse to say we do not need to keep the law. Of course, we know what this excuse really is about. These Christians want an excuse not to keep the Sabbath. They think that keeping the Sabbath holy shows you are trying to save yourself by keeping the law. Paul is against this false idea. Paul does not believe that our keeping the Sabbath shows we are trying to earn the good favor of God or His mercy.

So, Paul does not talk against the law in Galatians 3:1–14. Then Why do people use these verses to show we no longer need to keep the Sabbath? Galatians 3:10 shows us the answer. Paul says, “But people who depend on following the law to make them right are under a curse” (Galatians 3:10, ERV). Then Paul uses a quote from Deuteronomy 27:26. So, what do these verses show us? The problem is not our obedience to the law. The problem we have is when we try to save ourselves by our obedience.

Paul wants us to understand this important idea. So, he uses another quote from Deuteronomy. This time, Paul uses Deuteronomy 21:23 about a guilty man who should die for his crime. As punishment, the man is hung on a tree.

Paul uses this example as a word picture for what Jesus does for us. We are under a curse for breaking the law. “But Christ took away that curse. He changed places with us and put himself under that curse” (Galatians 6:13, ERV). What is that curse? Death. All humans face this death because we all have broken the law. The good news is that Jesus died this death for us on the cross. “Christ died so that by believing in him we could have the Spirit that God promised” (Galatians 3:14, ERV).

“No one but Jesus Christ can save sinners from the curse of the law. Only Jesus can make our lives right. Jesus took upon Himself our guilt. He accepted the shame of our sin. This sin was so awful to God because He is holy. Our sin separated the Father and the Son from each other.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 63, adapted.

`How should you feel about what Jesus did for you?`