---
title:  A Man From God 
date:  15/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Deuteronomy 18:15–19. What does Moses tell the people in these verses? Compare these verses in Deuteronomy with Acts 3:22 and Acts 7:37. What do Peter and Stephen say about Deuteronomy 18:18?`

Twice, Moses promises the people that the Lord will send them a very special messenger in the future (Deuteronomy 18:15, 18). This special messenger will be much the same as Moses. This special messenger also will stand between God and His people the same as Moses did (Exodus 20:18–21).

Hundreds of years later, both Peter and Stephen use Deuteronomy 18:15, 18 to talk about Jesus. Peter believed that Jesus was the Savior that the holy writers in the Old Testament talked about (Acts 3:21). So, Peter told the Jews that Jesus was the special messenger that God promised in Deuteronomy 18:15, 18 to send to the Jews. The Jews knew these verses very well. That is why Peter says these verses to the Jews. Peter wants to help the Jews see who Jesus really is. Then the Jews will see why they need to confess the wrong they did to Jesus (Acts 3:19).

Next, in Acts 7:37, we look at how Stephen uses Deuteronomy 18:15, 18. Stephen says that these verses in Deuteronomy are about Jesus. Stephen also announces that Jesus is the promised Savior. For sure, Jesus was the Promised One that God told Moses about. Stephen also says that Moses was an example of the leader that Jesus came to this earth to be. So, the Jews needed to obey Jesus and everything He had to say to them. Sadly, the Jews did not want to hear what Stephen had to say. The Jews accused Stephen of saying “ ‘bad things against Moses and against God!’ ” (Acts 6:11). But that was a lie.

`How does Deuteronomy 18:15, 18 show us Jesus and how important He is to the whole Bible? Why must Jesus be at the center of our understanding about the Bible?`