---
title:  An Awful Thing 
date:  16/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Hebrews in many ways is one long invitation to Jewish Christians. What is Paul, who wrote Hebrews, inviting his readers to do? Paul asks them to stay loyal and obedient to the Lord!

Of course, our obedience comes from our love for God. We obey Him because He is good and loves us. We see His love shown in a most powerful way at the cross of Jesus. We must always remember His love for us. But sometimes, as humans, we also need to remember what will happen to us if we turn away from that love. If we do not accept that Jesus paid the price for our sins, we will need to pay for our sins ourselves. Everyone who pays for their own sins “ ‘will cry and grind [make a noise with] their teeth’ ” (Matthew 22:13, WE) on the day when God judges every person who ever lived on this earth.

`Read Hebrews 10:28–31. What does Paul say in these verses? What meaning does this message have for our lives today?`

Paul uses Deuteronomy 17:6 to help his readers see that they need to stay loyal and obedient to God. Deuteronomy 17:6 is a law about punishment. The verse explains what the people should do with someone who is guilty of an awful crime. First, two or three witnesses must give a report that shows the man is guilty. Then, and only then, can the man be killed for his crime.

Paul uses this verse from Deuteronomy to teach an important Bible truth about the New Agreement. Under the Old Agreement a man who was not obedient to God was killed. “But the person who should have much bigger punishment is the one who turns against the Son of God. That person was made holy by the blood of the new agreement and then calls it nothing. He no longer honours and respects the Spirit who has been so kind to him” (Hebrews 10:29, WE). In other words, Paul tells his readers they have a lot more knowledge about God than the Jews did who lived under the Old Agreement. If the Christians under the new agreement turn away from God, their punishment will be far worse than anything the Israelites suffered. So, be careful.

`What is our only hope in the time when God judges? everyone who ever lived on this earth?`