---
title:  Further Thought
date:  17/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we have learned this week, many Old Testament writers used quotes from other Old Testament writers. In the same way, the New Testament is filled with quotes, ideas, history, messages, and stories from the Old Testament. The New Testament writers used verses from Psalms, Isaiah, and Deuteronomy more than they used verses from any other Old Testament books. Often, the New Testament writers used quotes from the Septuagint, which is also named the “Greek Old Testament.” The Septuagint is the earliest known copy of the Hebrew Bible that was written in the Greek language.

We can learn a lot about how to understand the Bible by how the New Testament writers used verses from the Old Testament. One lesson we can learn is that the New Testament writers never doubted that the Old Testament writings came from God. The New Testament writers also did not doubt any history or stories from the Old Testament. The New Testament writers believed that all these stories and history were true. The New testament writers believed in Adam and Eve, the Fall, the Flood, the story of Abraham, and more. The Bible “experts” today who question these Old Testament stories show the ugly doubt deep in their hearts. This doubt does not belong at all in the hearts and minds of Seventh-day Adventists.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about all the Bible truth God gave us as Seventh-day Adventists. Why is it so important that we live what we believe?`

`Read Deuteronomy 18:9–14. What are some modern examples of the “ ‘terrible [awful] things’ ” (Deuteronomy 18:9, ERV) that God hates? What can we do to avoid them?`

`Why should we never show favor to one person more than another person? Why does the Cross show us that this behavior is wrong? How can the Cross heal us of this wrong behavior?`