---
title:  Ways and Thoughts
date:  19/07/2020
---

#### inGest

More than a compilation of other peoples’ spiritual experiences or a record of ancient Near Eastern history, the Bible is the Word of God. Christian clichés have blurred the import of this phrase. But the Word of God denotes that the Lord has the ability to create, transform, change, generate, produce, and affect—all through the medium of communication. It is profound to think that the basis of all creation is thought and sound. “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made. In Him was life, and the life was the light of men” (John 1:1–4).

The Bible then becomes a book that not only contains historical references to the Word of God affecting the course of humanity, but it is the Word of God itself. Psalm 33:6, 9 states that everything was made “by the Word of the Lord.” Verse 6 emphasizes the actual “word of the Lord” having “breath” and coming from His “mouth.” Verse 9 points out that God “spoke, and it was done,” signifying the immediate creation of existence by mere spoken word.

As a result, there are things that God cannot do! Yes, “for with God nothing will be impossible” (Luke 1:37) in the sphere of humanity. But in the realm of divinity, God cannot go against what He has said (the Word of God), for not only is it what He said, but it is also that which He is! Titus 1:2 declares that God “cannot lie,” while Hebrews 6:18 maintains “it is impossible for God to lie.” It is this basis that reflects the power of God to change and to cause results and fruit in the life of the disciple.

Isaiah 55 highlights the power of God through His Word. Verse 7 highlights the dual words of repetition: ways and thoughts. In imploring humanity to seek and return to God, He admonishes the wicked and unrighteous to forsake their ways and thoughts. Then verses 8 and 9 emphasize the ways and thoughts of God. Notice the pattern that flows from one couple to another: My thoughts to your thoughts; your ways to My ways; My ways to your ways; and, My thoughts to your thoughts.

First God implores us to leave our ways and thoughts behind. Second, He emphasizes how our ways and thoughts are different from His ways and thoughts. Then, in verse 9, the chapter points out that His ways and thoughts are not only different but also higher. This height is not a problem, because as the rain comes down from heaven to earth, the ways and thoughts of the heavenly God come down to earth.

This condescension is dually manifested in the written Word of God, the Bible, and in the living Word of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. This Word will not return to God void but will accomplish what pleases God and shall prosper in the intention that God sent it/Him (v. 11). Verse 12 showcases the ways that the Word of God is effective: transformation of the people’s hearts, singing, rejoicing, the created world acknowledging its Creator, the removal of the negative, and the eternal remaining of the positive (verse 12).

The power of God is in His Word (Matt. 22:29; Mark 12:24). This power must be experienced today by every disciple of Jesus. There are trends in religion that deny this power and attribute God’s power to other spiritual fads and programs. But history and personal accounts throughout the ages testify to the power of God in the Word of God.

``