---
title:  The Two Covenants
date:   26/08/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “But the Jerusalem that is above is free, and she is our mother” (Gal. 4:26, NIV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 4:30

**Who’s Your Mama?**

As a teenager I grappled with the law and how it affected my life. I felt as if it was impossible to keep. I was tired of disappointing God, so I quit Christianity. I quit it because in my mind there is no point playing a game you cannot win. I was failing God every time I got off my knees. My failure did not just affect how I viewed myself, it began to damage my view of God as a Creator and Savior. If God is so loving, why would He give me an impossible task? If God wants the best for me, why let me play a game He knows I will lose? There I was, failing—failing to see God for who He truly is.

**So there I was; I really thought leaving God would help me feel better, but it only caused me to feel worse.**

Time went on, and I wrestled with my failures, knowing that even though I did not want anything to do with Him, I still felt pain when I realized I had failed Him. I went to church in pain; I went to school in pain; I went through life in pain because I knew that I was a failure. I knew that I always found a way to mess up but remained lost on my journey to perfection. So there I was; I really thought leaving God would help me feel better, but it only caused me to feel worse.

In Galatians 4, Paul describes two mothers—one mother is free and the other is a slave. While he doesn’t explicitly say this, it seems as though he’s continuously asking the question: Who’s your mother? Because of sin, you are born of a slave, but God in His mercy has given you the choice to decide.Who’s your mother? My mother seems to havebeen a slavenamed Failure because I naturally kept on failing God. Still, for some odd reason, God still gives me the choice to rewrite my birth certificate, giving me a new mother.

We might not be perfect and have it all together, but God really wants us to be a part of His family. It’s not about getting it right; it’s not about being perfect;it’s all about choosing.Throughout this lesson, the hope is that you will choose for yourself: will you remain as the daughter or son of a slave, or will you rewrite your birth certificate as a child of God?

**React**

`1. What has been your experience in learning what it means to be a child of the free mother?`

`2. How do our daily choices reflect who we believe our mother to be?`

_Brittany Hudson, Lacombe, Alberta, Canada_