---
title:  Cast Out!
date:   27/08/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gal. 4:22–31

If Paul could have written a letter to Hagar, perhaps he would have given to her the Letter to the Galatians. Her story is a microcosm of the churches of Galatia, of rejected Jerusalem, of works-based religions, and sometimes of us.

Through her marriage to Abraham, Hagar was made free. Her child would be able to callAbraham “father” through the grace given to her and, thus, would be a son and heir to both the material and spiritual blessings that God had promised.

**But was she really free?**

But instead of standing fast in her liberty, she used it as an occasion to serve the flesh—to hate, rival, and strive with Sarah instead of serving Sarah with love (Gal.5:13, 19–21).Hagar again entangled herself in the yoke of bondage, and like Paul’s Onesimus, she tried to escape.

But was she really free? Tired, homeless, and hungry, this fugitive was worse than shackled. Then she met Jesus face-to-face. Shocked at such a manifestation of grace, she asked, “ ‘Have I also here seen Him who sees me?’ ” (Gen. 16:13, NKJV). Like Paul, like John, and like us today, it was through that revelation of the Redeemer that she learned the true gospel (Gal. 1:12).When she met Jesus, she was born again to walk no more after the flesh but after the Spirit (Gal. 5:24–26).

But like the Galatians, before whose eyes Jesus Christ had been evidently set forth, Hagar transgressed and built again the things that had been destroyed (Gal.2:18).She had become a new creature:submissive, trusting, and obedient. But when Isaac was born, she raised again the lusts that had been buried by that well. She and her son persecuted him that was born after the Spirit (Gal. 4:29).

Even though they were known and favored of God, Hagar and Ishmael returned to the weak and beggarly elements, provoking and envying Isaac (Gal. 4:29; 5:26). “They which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God” (Gal.5:21).Thus the judgment is pronounced:“Cast out the bondwoman and her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the freewoman” (Gal. 4:30).

**React**

`1. Read Galatians 4:22–31.Whydoes Paul callthis story an allegory?What is it supposed to teach us?`

`2. Read Isaiah 19:18–25. Consider what Hagar could have been had she stood fast in her liberty. How do we squander the liberty we have in Christ?`

_Gabrielle A. Baker, Gassaway, West Virginia, USA_