---
title:  A Taste of Freedom
date:   28/08/2017
---

**Logos**: Jer. 31:31–33; Prov. 14:12; Matt. 5:21; John 8:34; 12:26; 13:16; Romans 6; 1 Cor. 7:22, 23

**Born as Slaves** (John 8:34; Rom. 6:16–18)

Throughout the ages, history has revealed to us a heart-wrenching truth. Human beings have been subjected to slavery at the hands of corrupt systems and governments. The earliest records of slavery (the Code of Hammurabi) date as far back as 1754 B.C. 1 Records have also shown that slavery existed in Greece during the seventh century B.C. The 1400s (A.D.) would mark the introduction of European slave trading and the rising captivity of black African slaves.2 This would eventually spread to America and many parts of the world. For these men and women in history, freedom was a lifelong dream that would come at an incredible cost.

International Mission Justice vice president Sharon Cohn Wu says: “God’s heart burns for slavery’s end and for those who are captive to be set free.” Though we are not physically bound as those men and women in history, we are born slaves to sin.True freedom should be our ultimate desire.

**The new covenant showcased a greater plan at work.**

**Released From Bondage** (Matt. 5:21; John 3:27; 8:28)

Just over 2,000 years ago, Christ made a sacrifice that forever released us from bondage.Prior to this, the Jews clung to a rigid system that they felt would grant them salvation.However, they failed to understand that these daily rituals were only meant to direct them to the One who was willing to give all for the price of their freedom.

Some people think that with Christ’s death came an end to upholding of the law.Yet this cannot be further from the truth.During Christ’s earthly ministry, He always sought to promote the law by the way He lived and through the words He spoke (Matt. 5:21). Of course, this was possible only by the divine power of God that coursed within Him (John 3:27; 5:19, 30; 8:28).

Christ’s death on the cross forever released us from the bondage of sin, but there are many living a life that suggests otherwise. When we choose to live a life of sin, we hold ourselves prisoners.The gift of grace that Christ so freely bestows cannot be fully ours until we take hold of it.We are no longer expected to pay for our sins; Christ has absolved all debts owed. His lifetime offer is free of charge.

**Write on Our Hearts** (Jer. 31:31–33; Rom. 13:10; Gal. 5:14)

It is more than we could ever hope for. By His merits, and His alone, we truly become free.On our own, our efforts to adhere to the law are useless, but in Christ, the possibilities are endless.The old covenant that was given to the Israelites set the law in stone.But with that also came the realization that it was not possible for mere flesh to keep the law.

The new covenant showcased a greater plan at work. By no means does the new covenant mean that the law is invalid, nor does it give a license to sin. Rather, the new covenant pulls back the curtain and displays the beauty of God’s love. We get a small glimpse of this in Jeremiah 31:33: “ ‘But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord:I will put My law in their minds, and write it on their hearts;and I will be their God, and they shall be My people’” (NKJV).With these words comes the promise of the Son of God and the indwelling of His Spirit. Once the Spirit of God could reside in the hearts of His people, then living by His law would simply be a natural outworking of an obedient heart.That is why the apostle Paul mentions in Romans 13:10 that “love is the fulfillment of the law” (NKJV; see also Gal. 5:14). Then, we can truly have life, as we seek to honor God by obeying His will.

**Being Free** (John 8:34–36; 12:16; Rom. 6:23; 1 Cor. 4:1, 2)

The sad truth is that many will continue to remain slaves, so long as they continue to serve sin. Indeed, this was the Pharisees’ problem back in Jesus’ day.In John 8, they reveal evidence of their misunderstanding:“They answered Him, ‘We are Abraham’s descendants, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can You say, “You will be made free”?’ Jesus answered them, ‘Most assuredly, I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin’ ” (John 8:33, 34, NKJV).

Sin is indeed a cruel master. So how are we to be made free from it? John 8:32 tells us, “ ‘And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free’ ” (NKJV). Our calling as God’s chosen people is to live as children of the free mother and not of the slave (Gal. 4:26). Upon further study, we discover that Jesus is “ ‘the way, the truth, and the life’ ” (John 14:6, NKJV). It is this truth that He refers to when He speaks of freedom.

Seeing ourselves in the light of Christ will help us to be able to discern our sin problem and yearn for escape. In John 8:36, Christ tells us, “ ‘Therefore if the Son makes you free, you shall be free indeed’ ” (NKJV). Once we allow Christ into our lives, we are no longer slaves to this vindictive master. We become servants of Christ (John 12:26; 13:16; 1 Cor. 4:1, 2; 7:22, 23).

Now there is no longer any need for us to remain in bondage. We don’t have to allow ourselves to be held under dominion to sin, which promises no rewards but death (Prov. 14:12; Ezek. 18:20; Rom. 6:23). Gone are the chains; Christ gives us the key. He lives in us, and we are now free.

**React**

`1. How can we embrace the freeing concept of God’s love in our daily living?`

`2. What are some things in your life that might be hindering you from attaining true freedom?`

`3. Why is it so important that we who are free unite in the work to release others from the chains of sin?`

<sup>1. “Code of Hammurabi, Babylon 1754 BC,” Colorado Notary Blog, accessed May 23, 2016, http://abclegaldocs.com/blog-Colorado-Notary/code-of-hammurabi-babylon-1754-bc/.</sup>

<sup>2. “History of Slavery,” Historyworld.net, accessed May 23, 2016, http://www.historyworld.net/wrldhis/PlainTextHistories.asp?ParagraphID=cio.</sup>

_Alexandra Yeboah, Toronto, Ontario, Canada_