---
title:  Trials of the Teacher
date:   29/08/2017
---

**Testimony**: 1 Tim. 1:3–11

“While tarrying at Corinth, Paul had cause for serious apprehension concerning some of the churches already established. Through the influence of false teachers who had arisen among the believers in Jerusalem, division, heresy, and sensualism were rapidly gaining ground among the believers in Galatia. These false teachers were mingling Jewish traditions with the truths of the gospel. Ignoring the decision of the general council at Jerusalem, they urged upon the Gentile converts the observance of the ceremonial law.

**“The situation was critical.”**

“The situation was critical. The evils that had been introduced threatened speedily to destroy the Galatian churches.

“Paul was cut to the heart, and his soul was stirred by this open apostasy on the part of those to whom he had faithfully taught the principles of the gospel. He immediately wrote to the deluded believers, exposing the false theories that they had accepted and with great severity rebuking those who were departing from the faith. . . .

“Thus Paul arraigned the believers in Galatia before the tribunal of their own conscience and sought to arrest them in their course. Relying on the power of God to save, and refusing to recognize the doctrines of the apostate teachers, the apostle endeavored to lead the converts to see that they had been grossly deceived, but that by returning to their former faith in the gospel they might yet defeat the purpose of Satan. He took his position firmly on the side of truth and righteousness; and his supreme faith and confidence in the message he bore, helped many whose faith had failed, to return to their allegiance to the Saviour.”*

**React**

`1. Ellen G. White referred to the situation in Galatia as “critical.” How would you handle a friend who is spreading false doctrine in your local church?`

`2. Have you ever discovered that what you believed and shared was contrary to what the Bible teaches? What impact did this have on your personal ministry?`

<sup>* Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 383–385.</sup>

_Ryan Scavella, Oshawa, Ontario, Canada_