---
title:  Caution! Slippery Slope Ahead
date:   30/08/2017
---

**How-to**: Gal. 4:17; Eph. 2:8, 9

It is rather awkward to receive good grades or honorable prizes without first earning them. It just doesn’t feel right to get something we don’t deserve. Isn’t this called having dignity and integrity? Quoting more Scripture than the pastor and attending more Sabbath School classes than the elder deserves some credit.The fact is, it’s in us to show off, modestly of course, just enough for someone to notice and pat us on the back. Doesn’t that feel so good?

**As sincere Christians, we desire to please God so earnestly that we can end up reasoning ourselves into perversion.**

As sincere Christians, we desire to please God so earnestly that we can end up reasoning ourselves into perversion, just like the Galatians. However, salvation is free, and the only thing God wants us to do is to get closer to Him and share His good news with others. Still, this idea is just too easy for many of us. We run the risk of modifying the simple, yet sound, doctrine of the gospel. How can we avoid the subtlety of working for a free pass? How can we check our zeal so that it doesn’t enslave us to the law?

Watch and pray. First, we must remain prayerful, especially as we study God’s Word.This is crucial since false interpretations are more prevalent now than ever before. Wisdom, knowledge, and understanding should be sought regularly.

Take time to meditate. Next, just in case we feel like boasting, we need to meditate on verses such as Ephesians 2:8, 9, which remind us that we are not saved by our deeds but only by God’s grace.Again, this can be quite hard to swallow since it’s ingrained in us to believe that work should be evaluated according to intensity and ability.

Choose your associations wisely. Finally, although cultivating strong relationships with God’s people is very important, we still need to be careful of whom we listen to or gather with. This is because many unwittingly share their zeal for teachings that have nothing to do with saving souls and living for Christ. It is therefore imperative that we examine everything like the Bereans did, even if the doctrine comes from our very own church. May we spend more time growing in grace together, instead of dividing the flock.

**React**

`1. Were you ever tempted to accept a teaching that you later found out wasn’t biblically based?`

`2. How would you respond to a friend who accuses you of keeping the law because you observe the Sabbath?`

_Zelinda Sealy-Scavella, Oshawa, Ontario, Canada_