---
title:  Constantly Missing the Mark
date:   31/08/2017
---

**Opinion**: Ps. 119:11; Zech. 4:6

There is this simple but profound song my grandmother taught me as a child. It’s one with a few variations, but it speaks volumes about two of the important Christian pastimes that are essential to a Spirit-filled life—prayer and Bible study.The paraphrased version goes as follows:

- Read your Bible,
- Pray every day,
- And you’ll grow, grow, grow.
- Don’t read your Bible.
- Forget to pray.
- And you’ll shrink, shrink, shrink.*

**He knew this was no easy feat and one that could only be borne through a strong connection with God.**

Sadly though, many Christians neglect these two necessary ingredients for a life that mirrors that of Christ. We breeze through our prayers and scarcely read the manual God took time to prepare for us to navigate this sinful life and learn more about Him and His will for us.

We try to get by with doing the bare minimum where a relationship with Christ is concerned, and when we begin to “shrink, shrink, shrink,” we blame God for neglecting us and failing to be true to His promise. We blame Him when the devil sweeps in like a flood and we are unable to resist and flee temptation;rarely do we look at our lives and address where we fall short.We cannot overcome sin and temptation and lead a Spirit-filled life if we neglect to spend quality time in prayer and Bible study.

Jesus’ mission was to walk the Earth devoid of His divinity and suffer isolation, rejection, poverty, constant temptation, separation from His Father, and a brutal death at the hands of His own people. He knew this was no easy feat and one that could only be borne through a strong connection with God. We are assailed by doubt, fear, temptation, sickness, death, and poverty, among other things. But we, too, can overcome and live a Spirit-filled life if, like Jesus, we spend quality time in prayer and Bible study.

**React**

`1. Is it worth your time and effort to read the Bible and spend time in prayer?`

`2. What is keeping you from living a Spirit-filled life?`

<sup>* “Read Your Bible, Pray Every Day,” Children’s Bible Songs, accessed May 23, 2016, http://www.childrensbiblesongs.us/read-your-bible-pray-every-day/.</sup>

_Akay Hendricks, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada_