---
title:  Covenants of Grace
date:   01/09/2017
---

**Exploration**: Jer. 31:31–33; Heb. 8:7–13

**Conclude**

In the Old Testament covenant at Sinai, God defined His relationship with His chosen nation, Israel. It was like a marriage agreement or a promise between God and His people. His law (a description of His character) was given to show them how to live in healthy relationships with Him and one another, which was necessary for such a large nation that had been immersed in pagan culture for four hundred years. In contrast, the new covenant is offered to anyone who chooses to believe in and accept Christ and is based on what He has done for His people for eternity. Both covenants are based on grace. Both are offered from a loving God. Both involve a reciprocal relationship of blessing and mutual engagement.

**Consider**

- Designing a social media meme of Jeremiah 31:33, “ ‘I will put My law in their minds, and write it on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people’ ” (NKJV). Share this meme on social media.
- Researching the steps of making an ancient covenant in the context of biblical covenants.
- Journaling a personal reflection on what it really means to be God’s people and whether this is truly evident in your life.
- Drawing a cartoon or diagram to explain the difference between the old and new covenants that could be shared in your church’s bulletin.
- Creating a short video that could be shown to non-Christians that explains the unchanging character of God in light of the old and new covenants.

**Connect**

- Genesis 9; 15; 17; Exodus 20; Hosea 2:15; Amos 9:14, 15; 2 Samuel 7:4–17.
- Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 128; Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 465.
- Skip MacCarty, In Granite or Ingrained? What the Old and New Covenants Reveal About the Gospel, the Law, and the Sabbath (Andrews University, 2007).

_Nina Atcheson, Buchanan, Michigan, USA_