---
title:  Matters of Conscience
date:   27/01/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 22:15–22**

**Matters of Conscience**

The Reformers’ teachings about righteousness by faith and Scripture led to a new era of religious freedom. Those who believed that the Bible is the ultimate spiritual authority denied the right of rulers to coerce people’s consciences. When testifying before the Diet of Worms in 1521, Martin Luther concluded his defense by saying, “Unless therefore I am convinced by the testimony of Scripture or by the clearest reasoning,... I cannot and I will not retract, for it is unsafe for a Christian to speak against his conscience. Here I stand, I can do no other; may God help me. Amen” (Ellen White, _The Great Controversy_ [1911], 160). The breach between church and state had been created. On record, before the greatest assembly of the empire, Martin Luther had denied the state’s so-called right to control matters of conscience.

Holy Roman Emperor Charles V was determined to crush this rebellion and defend Rome’s ecclesiastical authority. Luther’s death seemed certain, but the Elector of Saxony, who believed in upholding the law’s stipulation that everyone get a fair trial, managed to save his life by abducting him from the road to Wittenberg and covertly delivering him to the safety of the Wartburg Castle, about 125 miles (200 km) away. When Luther openly returned to Wittenberg nearly a year later, Charles V had become too embroiled in various wars to continue devoting resources to rooting out the Reformation movement.

Around this time, several of Germany’s princes began studying Luther’s teachings on Scripture and eventually came to accept them. When the emperor convened the Second Diet of Spires in 1529 for the purpose of prohibiting Lutheran teachings, the princes risked their lives by standing firm on the same convictions Luther had articulated at Worms eight years earlier: “In matters of conscience, the majority has no power” (Ibid., 201). They accepted no compromise that would limit the people’s freedom to publish and teach God’s Word. This week’s study examines the biblical support for the separation of church and state that eventually resulted from the Protestant Reformation.

### inScribe

Write out Matthew 22:15–22 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 17–21. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._