---
title:  The Image
date:   28/01/2024
---

### inGest

Jesus’ enemies worked hard to try to trap Him with His own words. In Matthew 22, the Pharisees, Herodians, and Sadducees each brought cleverly crafted questions intended to make Jesus stumble. Their questions were chosen from the most hotly debated topics of the day: politics, marriage, and theology (vv. 15–40). Their strategy was to try to force Jesus into taking sides on these controversies so He would automatically alienate Himself from one side of the argument. Jesus was not afraid to firmly take sides on certain issues regardless of public opinion, and yet He answered in such a way that disarmed and silenced His critics.

This incredible ability is perfectly demonstrated in the first question-test Jesus faced, which the Pharisees and Herodians colluded to create (Matt. 22:16). For context, Pharisees and Sadducees were on opposite sides of the political spectrum. The Pharisees were nationalists who sought deliverance from Rome’s authoritarian rule so they could be a sovereign nation once again. They were the most popular amongst the Jews at the time, but they hadn’t secured the necessary positions for political power as such positions were not elected by popular vote. The high priest and the Sanhedrin, Israel’s highest governing body, were such positions, and were mostly occupied by Sadducees (Acts 5:19)—wealthy elites who were willing to compromise with Rome. Less is known about the Herodians, but they supported the dynasty of Herod, one of Rome’s “client kings.” As such, they aligned with the Sadducees in being pro-Rome. It’s therefore surprising that Matthew 22 records nationalist, anti-Rome Pharisees conspiring with globalist, pro-Rome Herodians to flatter Jesus and entangle Him in their political web with their first question, which had to do with whether Jews should pay taxes. Here’s what we can learn about Jesus’ response to that question (vv. 15–22):

1. Jesus saw through their pretenses and hypocrisies and would not lower Himself to their level (v. 18).

2. He unequivocally answered their question about taxes by pointing out Caesar’s image on the coin, an action that told the people that Caesar had a claim on their currency. But the answer also revealed that because we are made in God’s image, we owe Him our lives (Gen. 1:26, 27).

3. He identified two distinct and separate domains of responsibility: to the government, and to God (Matt. 22:21).

4. He left the people who were trying to cross-examine Him speechless (v. 23).

The attempts to weaken Jesus’ credibility by drawing Him into political disputes only strengthened His influence. Everyone could see that He could handle the toughest questions of the day. Matthew 22 reveals the heavenly wisdom Jesus had in navigating contemporary debates, a wisdom He promises to give us when we need it (Matt. 10:19).

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Why did Jesus answer the religious leaders so concisely? Why didn’t He explain more?`

`What hotly debated questions might people ask Jesus today if they could?`