---
title:  Two Domains
date:   29/01/2024
---

### inTerpret

Jesus answered the religious leaders’ questions with principles that were brief in form but broad in application. He could’ve explained much more, but perhaps this was one of those moments He was thinking, “I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now” (John 16:12). Thankfully for modern readers, many of the questions this passage may raise are explored later in the New Testament. Romans 13:1–10 mirrors the language of Matthew 22:21 but provides more explanation. It should therefore be studied as an inspired commentary on Matthew 22:18–21.

How do the separate domains of God and government interact? God’s domain encompasses everything, including our responsibility to government (Rom. 13:1). God delegates authority to our leaders, which is why Paul refers to government agents as “God’s ministers” three times in Romans 13. Paul was referring specifically to the Roman government in this letter, and it’s nearly impossible to exaggerate the corruption of that regime. The believers to whom Paul wrote lived under erratic government leaders who were guilty of some of the most treacherous crimes against their subjects. Even so, Paul gave those people this warning: “Therefore whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring [God’s] judgment on themselves” (v. 2). God requires submission even to corrupt governments, but submission is not without limits.

Romans 13 places limits on the authority of government. The New King James Version translates the word “due” in verse 7 and “owe” in verse 8 from the same Greek root word. The English Standard Version provides a clearer translation by using the same word in both verses: “Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. Owe no one anything, except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.” These verses name areas where we have obligations to government authority: taxes, revenue, respect, honor, and in summary, loving one another according to the law. Notably, these verses mention nothing of worship, blasphemy, Sabbath keeping, or any other aspect of our love to God. God alone has jurisdiction over the vertical love we owe Him as described in the first four commandments (Exod. 20:1–11; Matt. 22:37, 38), but has delegated to human governments responsibility for protecting safe and proper vertical relationships as explained in the last six commandments (Exod. 20:12–17; Matt. 22:39, 40). God has given governments the responsibility of protecting each person’s individual rights, suppressing evil, and guarding relationships with our neighbors. Though the corrupt government in Rome often betrayed its citizens and failed in its responsibilities, Christians were still to respect that authority so long as it did not infringe on their duties to God. As far as possible, we should obey both the laws of God and the laws of government, but when a conflict arises between divine law and human law, God’s law is always supreme. As the apostles said, “We ought to obey God rather than men” (Acts 5:29, NKJV).

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Are we in greater danger of being overly compliant with government or overly subversive? Why?`

`Are there any questions from Matthew 22:15–22 that are not explained in Romans 13:1–10?`