---
title:  Separating Church and State
date:   31/01/2024
---

### inVite

By embracing the distinctions Jesus made in Matthew 22:18–21 along with the inspired commentary in Romans 13:1–10, we can see the wall Jesus established that separates church and state. The government is allowed to use instruments of force when protecting neighbor-to-neighbor relationships, guaranteeing individual rights, suppressing evil, and maintaining order: “For he is God’s minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is God’s minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil” (Rom. 13:4). However, while the sword is a legitimate tool for the state, Jesus declared weapons of force off limits for the New Testament church: “My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews; but now My kingdom is not from here” (John 18:36). To Jesus, the clear difference between the methods the church uses to accomplish its mission and those the state uses should be an obvious indicator of where the distinct line separating church and state lies.

As we discussed in lessons 1 and 3, Jesus established the church to strengthen our relationship with God without subjecting us to force or coercion. As an example to all church leaders, Jesus always honored the boundaries He established separating church and state. He was gentle and mild, never employing intimidation or violence. He firmly resisted all attempts to make His role and goals civil ones instead of spiritual ones.

The separation of church and state reveals Jesus’ mercy, goodness, and wisdom. This doctrine was very foreign to the founders of other religions, evidenced in their ambitions for the complete blending of government and religion. The dark and sinister histories from the centuries where church and state were combined show the church’s terrible mistake in departing from this Messianic teaching and apostolic doctrine. As the Protestant Reformation rediscovered the Bible, the gospel, and the Savior, it’s no wonder that they reinstated a separation of the two domains founded on Christ’s teachings.

In continuing the work of those who have gone before us, our mission includes both the proclamation of truth and the defense of religious liberty. Ellen White put it this way: “The banner of truth and religious liberty held aloft by the founders of the gospel church and by God’s witnesses during the centuries that have passed since then, has, in this last conflict, been committed to our hands. The responsibility for this great gift rests with those whom God has blessed with a knowledge of His word. We are to receive this word as supreme authority. We are to recognize human government as an ordinance of divine appointment, and teach obedience to it as a sacred duty, within its legitimate sphere. But when its claims conflict with the claims of God, we must obey God rather than men. God’s word must be recognized as above all human legislation” (_The Acts of the Apostles_ [1911], 68). Our spiritual heritage includes the duty to properly comprehend and advance the message of religious liberty.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`How did Jesus honor people’s free will?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`