---
title:  IN THE BEGINNING...
date:   17/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Genesis 1:1. What deep truths do we see in this verse?`

The Bible starts with the most beautiful and powerful words. True, they are simple words. But they are deep too. Do you see that this verse answers all the big questions that we humans have about who we are, why we are here, and how we got here? Yes, all these big questions get answered in the first sentence of the Bible!

We are here because God made us at a certain time in the past. We did not come from nothing. We did not start to live because of luck or chance. We are here because God has a plan! Modern science’s teaching about why we are here goes against the Bible in every way. Christians who try to make the Bible agree with this false science are silly.

God made us at a clear time: “in the beginning.” This verse shows us that God lived before this. That is, God lived before time was made. We can read about our beginning in other parts of the Bible. The Bible shows again and again that God made us (John 1:1–3).

`Read about how the earth was made in John 1:1–3 and Hebrews 1:1, 2. Who made the earth? Think about what it means that He also died on the cross.`

The Bible teaches that Jesus made the earth and all that is in it. The Bible says that “He made all things. Nothing was made without Him making it” (John 1:3, NLV). “God gave His Son everything. It was by His Son that God made the world” (Hebrews 1:2, NLV). Jesus made everything. That gives us hope that He will finish what He started. He will save us and make us new. He will make the sky and the earth new too. We can trust Him to do this because He is “ ‘the First and the Last, the beginning and the end of all things’ ” (Revelation 1:8, NLV). Again, our Lord says: “ ‘I am the Alpha [the First] and the Omega [the Last]. I am the First and the Last. I am the Beginning and the End’ ” (Revelation 22:13, NIrV).

`How does it make you feel to know that God made you? What if you did not believe that? How would you view yourself and other people? Why?`

_The Bible teaches that Jesus made the earth and all that is in it._
