---
title:  GOD MADE THE EARTH IN SIX DAYS
date:   18/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Today, many people think that God did not make the sky and the earth in six days. They say that the story in Genesis about how life got started is not true. They believe in evolution. Evolution teaches that life on earth came from changes in nature that happened in the past over a very long time.

What does the Bible teach us about how life got started? How do we know that the “days” in Genesis 1 are real days, and not word pictures for hundreds and hundreds of years?

`Read Genesis 1:3–5 and Exodus 20:8–11. What does the word “day” mean in these verses?`

The Hebrew word for “day” is “yôm.” “Yôm” means a real 24-hour day. Moses uses the word “yôm” in Genesis when he talks about how God made the earth. Moses shows us in Genesis that he is talking about real 24-hour days. He does not mean anything else. Of course, many Bible thinkers do not believe that the days are real days. But even so, they agree that Moses meant to show that the days in Genesis are real 24-hour days.

It is interesting that God Himself gives us the word “yôm” for “day” on the 1st day of the week that He made the earth. “God named the light ‘day [yôm],’ and he named the darkness ‘night.’ There was evening, and then there was morning. This was the first day” (Genesis 1:5, ERV). The word “yôm” means only one day. It does not mean more than one day at all.

So, “yôm” shows us that the days that God made the earth are seven real days. The Hebrew language shows us that the first day was day one (“ ‘echad”), or one real day. After day one, we read about what God made on the other six days, starting with the second day, then the third day, then the fourth, and so on. The Hebrew language does not show us that there is any delay in time between the days. Each day ends and then another starts right after that. So, we can see that the seven days when God made the sky and the earth are real 24-hour days.

The Ten Commandments show us the same thing. God wrote with His finger the fourth commandment. That commandment shows us that the reason we keep the 7th day holy is because God made the earth in six real days and rested on the 7th.

_The Sabbath commandment shows us the reason we keep the 7th day holy. It is because God made the earth in six real days and rested on the 7th._
