---
title:  WHEN GOD MADE THE EARTH AND THE SABBATH
date:   19/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Today, religious communities and nonreligious groups attack the 7th-day Sabbath. We see this attack on the Sabbath in the work schedules of businesses worldwide. These businesses say that their employees must work on the Sabbath. Also, in many countries in Europe, the calendar has been changed. In the new calendar, the first day of the week starts on Monday. So, Sunday is now the 7th day. We also see the attack on the Sabbath in the pope’s message about the global warming. Global warming is the name for hotter temperatures on earth and in the ocean because the air, earth, and water are not clean. The pope’s message also names the 7th-day Sabbath as “the Jewish Sabbath.” Then the pope tells everyone on earth to keep a day of rest to help stop global warming. (Read Pope Francis, Laudato Si’, Vatican City: Vatican Press, 2015, pages 172, 173.)

`Read Genesis 2:1–3; Exodus 20:8–11; Mark 2:27; and Revelation 14:7. What is the connection between the Sabbath and the week that God made the earth? How are these two ideas also tied to the Three Angels’ Messages?`

The Bible says, “God finished the work he was doing, so on the seventh day he rested from his work” (Genesis 2:2, ERV). Also, Ellen G. White says, “God rested on the 7th day. Then God made the 7th day holy. He separated the 7th day from the week as a day of rest for people.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 47, adapted. This is why Jesus can say, “ ‘The Sabbath day was made to help people. People were not made to be ruled [controlled] by the Sabbath’ ” (Mark 2:27, ERV). Jesus can say this because He rested on the Sabbath. It is an everlasting sign of God’s covenant, or special agreement, with His people. The Sabbath was not only for the Hebrew people but the Sabbath also is for all humans.

Genesis shows us that Jesus does three things after He makes the Sabbath day. (1) He “rested” (Genesis 2:2, ERV). When Jesus rested on the Sabbath, He showed us that He wants to rest with us too. (2) He “blessed” the 7th day (Genesis 2:3, ERV). He also blessed the animals He made (Genesis 1:22) and Adam and Eve (Genesis 1:28). But the only day that Jesus blesses is the 7th day. (3) God “made it holy” (Genesis 2:3, NIrV). No other day in the Bible is holy, blessed, and a day of rest. We see these three ideas in the 4th Commandment (Exodus 20:11).

_When Jesus rested on the Sabbath (Genesis 2:2), He showed us that He wants to rest with us too._
