---
title:  WHEN GOD MADE THE EARTH AND MARRIAGE
date:   20/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

In the last ten years, we have seen big changes in the way that people view marriage. Many countries have passed laws that now make same-sex marriages legal. Same-sex marriages are between two people of the same sex. The new laws replace old laws that protected marriages and families with a man and woman at the center. The new laws have not been passed before. The laws cause us to ask questions about the power of the church and government to decide what is right. They also cause us to ask questions about what the Bible says about marriage and the family. Are marriage and the family holy?

`Read Genesis 1:26–28 and Genesis 2:18, 21–24. What do these verses teach us about God’s plan for marriage?`

On the 6th day, God makes humans. In Genesis 1:26, we see that the plural word for “God” is written in the Bible: “Then God said, ‘Let us make human beings so that they are like [the same as; copies of] us’ ” (Genesis 1:26, NIrV). “So God created [made] humans in his own image [a copy of Himself]. He created them to be like [the same as] himself. He created them male and female” (Genesis 1:27, ERV). Adam says that Eve’s “ ‘bones have come from my bones. Her body has come from my body’ ” (Genesis 2:23, NIrV). Adam names her “ ‘woman’ ” (Genesis 2:23, ERV). In marriage, “a man leaves his father and mother and is joined to his wife. In this way two people become one” (Genesis 2:24, ERV).

Next, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit give humans the gift of marriage. The Bible shows that marriage happens between a man and a woman only. God makes this idea clear when He tells Adam and Eve: “ ‘Have many children. Fill the earth and take control of it’ ” (Genesis 1:28, ERV). In the 5th Commandment, God commands children to honor their father and their mother (Exodus 20:12). Children can do this only if they come from a family with a mother and a father. So, we see that God does not accept same-sex marriage.

`Read Jesus’ words about marriage in Matthew 19:3–6. What do they teach us about marriage? We always must remember that God loves all people, even if they do not obey Him. So, we should be loving and kind to everyone too. At the same time, how should we take a firm stand on the Bible truth about marriage?`

_In the 5th Commandment, God commands children to honor their father and their mother (Exodus 20:12)._
