---
title:  GENESIS, THE FALL, AND THE CROSS
date:   21/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible connects the start of life on earth, the Fall, the Savior, and God’s plan to save humans. Everything God does to save us is built on these Bible truths.

`Read Genesis 1:31; Genesis 2:15–17; and Genesis 3:1–7. What happened to this perfect earth after God made it?`

God said everything He made “was very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). “God finishes making everything on this planet. . . . The Garden of Eden blooms on the earth. Adam and Eve can freely eat from the tree of life. There is no sin or death to make anything ugly.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 47, adapted. God warns Adam and Eve not to eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. If they do, they will die (Genesis 2:15–17). The snake started his talk with Eve with a question. The snake’s next words go against everything God said: “ ‘You will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, ERV). Satan tells Eve that she will become very smart and wise. She will become the same as God. Clearly, Eve believes the snake.

Paul talks about sin in Romans 5:12 and Romans 6:23. How do Paul’s words show us that what God says about sin in Genesis 2:15–17 is true? How are these teachings a warning against theistic evolution? Theistic evolution is the false idea that God started life on earth and let it change slowly over a long time into the plants and animals we see now.

In Romans 5–8, Paul writes about sin and about the beauty of God’s plan to save humans from sin. Paul says: “Sin came into the world because of what one man did. And with sin came death. So this is why all people must die—because all people have sinned” (Romans 5:12, ERV). Evolution teaches us that there was death on this earth long before there were humans. The Bible teaches that this idea cannot be true. Death came because of sin. But if death did not come from sin, then we cannot say that sin’s paycheck is death (Romans 6:23). If death did not come from sin, Jesus did not need to die for our sins. So, we can see that the history of how life started, the story of the Fall, and the Cross are all connected. But a belief in the false idea of theistic evolution destroys the foundation of Christianity.

_The snake’s words go against everything God said: “ ‘You will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, ERV)._
