---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   22/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Ellen G. White, “The Creation,” pages 44–51; “The Literal Week,” pages 111–116, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“When we look at the Hebrew language, we see clear proof that the word “yôm” in Genesis 1 shows us one real, 24-hour day.

“Moses chose language in Genesis 1 to show us without a doubt that the days in Genesis show us real, 24-hour days.”—Gerhard F. Hasel, “The ‘Days’ of Creation in Genesis 1: Literal ‘Days’ or Figurative ‘periods/Epochs’ of Time?” Origins 21/1 [1994], pages 30, 31, adapted.

“Very smart people must be led by the Bible. If they are not, then their minds will become confused when they try to understand how science connects with the Bible. God and His works are beyond their understanding. The laws of science and nature cannot explain God or His works. And because of this, men will say that Bible history cannot be trusted.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 8, page 258, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Look at the Ellen G. White quotation above. How often, even today, do we see members of our church become confused about the Bible and science? That is, how often do we see Christians believing science and not the Bible? How does this belief show that they feel the Bible cannot be trusted?`

`2. Do you know a Christian who believes in evolution? You will remember that evolution is the belief that life on earth came about because of changes that happened very slowly over a long time. Why not ask him or her to explain what Paul wrote about the Cross in Romans 5? Paul shows a clear connection between Adam’s sin and death and Jesus’ death on the cross. What explanation does he or she give you?`

`3. How can we help other people who are having questions about same-sex marriages? In John 8, we see an example of a woman who was guilty of sex sins. She was brought to Jesus to be killed with stones. What does Jesus’ example show us about how we must show love to people who are guilty? Why must we not “throw stones” at them?`

_“The word ‘yôm’ in Genesis 1 shows us one real, 24-hour day.”_
