---
title:  Some Important Questions
date:   19/02/2023
---

`Read Ecclesiastes 12:1. What’s the message for us in this verse?`

When we become adults, we must take care of our basic needs. We will need food, clothing, and a place to live. But before we do anything, we must put God first. When we put God first, He will take care of our needs. As Jesus says, “ ‘What you should want most is God’s kingdom and doing what he wants you to do. Then he will give you all these other things you need’ ” (Matthew 6:33, ERV). What if you already are older and didn’t choose to serve Jesus when you were young? Is it too late to make the right decision to manage money wisely? Of course not! You can learn.

As we saw in Genesis 28:20–22, Jacob makes some important life decisions about money and God. First, God comes to Jacob in a dream. The Lord introduces Himself to Jacob as “ ‘the Lord, the God of your grandfather Abraham. I am the God of Isaac’ ” (Genesis 28:13, ERV). Then Jacob makes a promise to God. As part of his promise, Jacob says, “ ‘the Lord will be my God’ ” (Genesis 28:21, ERV).

`Read the story in Genesis 29:9–20 about Jacob and Rachel. What happens before Jacob meets Rachel? (Read Genesis 28.) What does the answer teach us about what we need to do first before we make big decisions in life?`

First, Jacob promises to serve God with his whole heart and all his money. Then God leads Jacob to Rachel at the well (read Genesis 29:9–20). What does this story show us? One thing the story shows us is that we must make our spiritual decision to serve God before we get married. We should decide what job we want to do in life before we get married, too. Here are some questions you should ask yourself before you get married: (1) Does the person I want to marry love God? (2) What type of job or work will he or she do? Will this person be a teacher, a nurse, a lawyer? (3) What type of life will the two of you have together? (4) How much education does this person have? (5) How much money does this person owe? (6) Are you willing to be responsible for paying this money back?

`Read the important rule in 2 Corinthians 6:14, 15. How can this rule help you choose the best marriage partner?`