---
title:  The Blessing of Work
date:   20/02/2023
---

Maybe you are blessed enough to have lots of money. So, you don’t need to work. But most of us need to earn a living. What type of work should you do? First, find work that makes you happy. This work also should pay good money. Then you may need to get special training. Next, you will need to find a job. You will need to do this job until you retire. We all want to find the perfect job that makes us happy. But life doesn’t always happen that way.

`What does the Bible teach us about work? Read Genesis 2:15 for the answer. (Also read Ecclesiastes 9:10 and 2 Thessalonians 3:8–10.) God gave Adam and Eve work before they sinned. How does this information help us understand why work is important for humans?`

The Bible shows us that work is not punishment. Work is a blessing. God gave humans work in Eden. No sin, no death, and no suffering were in Eden before the Fall. But work was a part of Adam and Eve’s perfect life before sin. So, we see that God knew that humans needed to work.

“God gave Adam work. Adam’s job was to care for the Garden of Eden. God knew that Adam couldn’t be happy without working. Adam loved the beauty of the Garden. But its beauty was not enough for him. Adam needed to do work that would exercise his wonderful body. If man needed to do nothing to be happy, God would have given Adam no work to do. But God made man. So, God knew best what man needed to be happy. As soon as God made man, God gave him his job. God promises humans a future reward in heaven. This same God also said that humans must work for their food.”—Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, page 223, adapted.

After the Fall, sin made work more difficult. God said to Adam: “ ‘So I am putting a curse on the ground because of what you did. All the days of your life you will have to work hard. It will be painful for you to get food from the ground’ ” (Genesis 3:17, NIrV). Do you see that God cursed the ground “because of what you [Adam] did”? This idea shows us that God understood that work was necessary for Adam after he sinned.

`In what way is work a blessing? How does work help us? Why do we, as sinners, need work?`