---
title:  Our Working Years
date:   21/02/2023
---

As we saw yesterday, God wants humans to work. The part of our lives when we work is named “the working years.” The working years often continue for about 40 years of our lives. During this time, many families have children. They buy houses. They send their kids to school. The family learns to work together at this time, too. Family members learn to love each other. This love can continue for a lifetime. Money problems can hurt a marriage during the working years. Families will have success if they put God first. Families also must follow important Bible rules for success. These rules will make the family stronger.

`Read 1 Timothy 5:8; Proverbs 14:23; and Colossians 3:23, 24. What important Bible rules can we learn from these verses? How can these rules help families manage their money?`

In many families, the father earns the most money. Often, both the husband and wife work. Disaster can happen: sickness, job loss, whatever. These disasters can make paying bills difficult. So, families may need to change their spending habits during these times.

During the working years, families may have children. The Bible tells us, “Children are a gift from the Lord. Babies are a reward” (Psalm 127:3, ICB). We must remember that children need a lot of love and care. Christian parents must teach their children to become adults who can take care of their own needs. Parents also need to help their children get ready for heaven.

Here are three important rules to help parents:

_1. Give your children a Christian home._ Have family worship with your children morning and evening. Take them to Sabbath School and church each week. Teach them to give offerings to God and pay tithe. (As we learned, tithe is 10% of all the money we get from work or as a gift.) Teach these habits to your children early in life.

_2. Teach your children to love work._ Children will learn that people will reward their hard work. Teach your children that paychecks come from doing tasks that other people want done and doing these tasks well.

_3. Help pay for your children’s education._ Education is expensive today. So, help your kids if you can afford to help them. The money you pay is worth the cost.