---
title:  Be an Honest Worker
date:   22/02/2023
---

God asks us to be honest workers. He wants other people to respect us and our work. Respect starts with God’s law. We must ask God to write His law in our hearts (read Jeremiah 31:33). Then we will have success in our work. The Bible says, “It is better to be respected than to be rich. A good name is worth more than silver or gold” (Proverbs 22:1, ERV).

In the Bible, we read stories about workers who did an excellent job. Their bosses saw that God blessed the work of these men and women. God also blessed their bosses, too. Examples of good workers are Ruth, Joseph, and Jacob. When Jacob wanted to leave Laban, his father-inlaw, Laban, asked him not to leave. “Laban said to him, ‘If I have pleased you, please stay. I know the Lord has blessed me because of you’ ” (Genesis 30:27, ICB). We see the same thing happen in Joseph’s story after his brothers sell him into slavery in Egypt. Joseph’s new master, Potiphar, also sees that God has blessed Joseph’s work. So, Potiphar rewards Joseph.

`Read the story about Joseph in Genesis 39:2–5. What did Joseph do that caused his master to praise him?`

The Bible commands, “So if you eat or drink or whatever you do, do everything to honor God” (1 Corinthians 10:31, NLV). This important rule teaches us that we must honor God with our money, our jobs, and everything else we do. God gives us knowledge and strength to succeed in life. “ ‘Lord, you are great and powerful. You have glory, victory and honor. Everything in heaven and on earth belongs to you. The kingdom belongs to you, Lord. You are the ruler over everything. Riches and honor come from you. You rule everything. You have the power and strength to make anyone great and strong’ ” (1 Chronicles 29:11, 12, ICB).

`What important Bible rules are you following with your work and your life? What changes do you need to make?`