---
title:  Getting Good Advice
date:   23/02/2023
---

There are many money experts today. But God warns us not to trust their advice. “Happy is the person who doesn’t listen to the wicked [evil person]. He [the happy person] doesn’t go where sinners go. He doesn’t do what bad people do. He loves the Lord’s teachings. He thinks about those teachings day and night. He is strong, like [the same as] a tree planted by a river. It produces fruit in season. Its leaves don’t die. Everything he does will succeed” (Psalm 1:1–3, ICB).

`Read the important rule in Proverbs 3:5–8. How can following this rule help you manage your money better?`

Let’s look at seven Bible rules for managing money:

_1. Make a spending plan (Luke 14:28–32)._ Many families don’t have a spending plan. They spend their whole paycheck each time they get paid. Without a plan for earning, saving, and spending, life can be full of stress.

_2. Spend less than you earn (Proverbs 15:16)._ Many families in Western countries spend more than they earn because they own credit cards. Then these families owe a lot of money, or have debt. Debt is money we owe. Debt causes many problems.

_3. Save something from every paycheck (Proverbs 6:6–8)._ We save to buy larger and more expensive things in the future. We save to take care of expenses we didn’t plan for. Savings can help us when we get sick or can’t work.

_4. Avoid debt (Proverbs 22:7)._ Debt is borrowed money. When we borrow money, we really are living today on money we expect to earn in the future. So, borrowed money is money we really don’t own. If we lose our job, how can we pay off the debt? If we can’t, we will be embarrassed.

_5. Work hard and carefully. (Proverbs 6:6–8)._ “The lazy person will not get what he wants. But a hard worker gets everything he wants” (Proverbs 13:4, ICB).

_6. Pay tithe (Deuteronomy 28:1–14)._ As we saw, tithe is 10% of all the money we get. When we pay our tithe and offerings, God will bless us. All families need God’s blessing.

_7. Remember that this earth is not our real home._ How we manage our money shows people where we keep our treasure: on earth or in heaven (read Matthew 6:21; Luke 12:34).