---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/02/2023
---

“We must think about the future whenever we make business plans or other plans in life. We must not plan only for our lives now. . . . When we put our treasure in heaven, God will make our lives on this earth better and richer.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 145, adapted.

“Real success in business comes from our understanding that everything we have comes from God. God made everything. So, God is the Owner of everything, too. We are God’s managers. He gave us everything we have. He trusts us with His stuff. He commands us to use His things as He commands.”—Education, page 137, adapted.

Many people think that the money they make only is for taking care of their families. But as Christians, we must do our part to help other people, too. We must use our money to support God’s work on earth (read Mark 16:15).

“We need to follow God’s plan for life more carefully. We must do our best in the big things and little things in life that God has given us to do. We must give ourselves fully to God. We must look for proof of God’s favor and for proof of His blessings. These important rules will guide us safely in the job we choose to do in this life.”—Education, page 267, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`As Christians, how do we decide what “success” in life is? What do non-Christians say that “success” is? Look at John the Baptist. He died in a prison. He was sent there by Herod. Do you believe his life was a success? What reasons can you give for your answer?`

`Many people have success in life. But they don’t follow Bible rules for making money or managing money. How do we explain their success? Or what about people who try to follow Bible rules, but then something terrible happens to them? Maybe they get sick. Or a disaster happens in their personal lives. How do we explain these things?`