---
title:  Jesus’ followers get ready
date:   28/10/2018
---

Jesus makes His followers a promise before His death. He promises them that He will never leave them alone. God will send them the Holy Spirit who will always be with them. The Spirit will help Jesus’ followers do God’s work. The Spirit also will help them remember many things that Jesus said and did (John 14:26). The Spirit will guide Jesus’ followers to find more truths (John 16:13). Before He leaves the earth, Jesus again promises His followers that God will send them the Holy Spirit (Acts 1:5, 8). The Spirit will help them witness in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and everywhere else on the earth (Acts 1:8).

`In Acts 1:12–14, we learn about the things that Jesus’ followers did for 10 days to get ready for the Holy Spirit. What did Jesus’ followers do to get ready?`

“Jesus’ followers wait for God to send them the Holy Spirit as He promised to do. They empty their hearts of pride. They feel deep sorrow for their sins. They turn away from their sins. They remember the words that Jesus said to them before He died. Now they understand better the meaning of Jesus’ words. They start to remember truths that they forgot. They share these truths with each other. Each person scolds himself or herself for not really understanding Jesus. Jesus’ followers remember His wonderful life. They think about how clean and holy Jesus’ life was. They feel that nothing that God asks them to do or give up for Jesus is too much or too hard. They are willing to suffer anything in the future because their lives show people that Jesus is a beautiful Person. Oh, if only Jesus’ followers could live the last three years over again! They want to see Jesus again so that they can show Him that they love Him deeply. They want to show Him how they are very sorry for making Him sad because they showed no faith in Him. But Jesus’ followers feel better when they remember that God forgives them. They decide to do everything they can to show they have a lot of faith in Jesus now. They will bravely confess the truth about Jesus to everyone on the earth. . . . Jesus’ followers stop arguing and disagreeing with each other. They let go of the wish to be first and rule over each other. Then they join as one heart in Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers, pages 36, 37, adapted.