---
title:  The day when God poured out His Spirit
date:   29/10/2018
---

After Jesus went to heaven, His followers got ready for the Holy Spirit to come. God poured His Spirit on Jesus’ followers at Pentecost. Pentecost is a special Jewish festival. When God poured the Holy Spirit on Jesus’ followers, they were “all together in one place” (Acts 2:1, NLV) during Pentecost.

In Bible times, Pentecost was one of three big feasts that every male in Israel must join and celebrate. Pentecost happened 50 days after Passover. The word Pentecost comes from the Greek word pentekoste, which means “50th day.” During the Feast of Pentecost, the Hebrews offer God the first summer crops from their gardens and farms. They offer these crops to God in thanksgiving and joy.

We think that the Feast of Pentecost in Jesus’ day also included a celebration to help God’s people remember the time when God gave Moses the law on Mount Sinai (Exodus 19:1). If that is true, then what does that celebration of the law show us? It shows us that God’s law continues to be important to the Christian message about Jesus. That helps us understand why one of the most important verses about the end times tells us about both the law and the Good News about Jesus (Revelation 14:12).

Now let us look more closely at what happened when God gave Moses the law on Mount Sinai (Exodus 19:16–25; Hebrews 12:18). God gave Moses the law during Pentecost many years before Jesus lived on earth. Moses’ experience helps us understand better what happens when God pours His Spirit on Jesus’ followers during Pentecost in the New Testament. You can read about what happened at that Pentecost in Acts 2:2–4. Do you see that many of the miracles in Acts are the same as the ones that happened when God gave Moses the law? 

`Acts 2:5–13 describes what happens at Pentecost. What does this powerful experience mean?`

People see God’s power when Jesus’ followers start speaking in languages they never knew before. Jews who came from other countries heard the message about Jesus in their own language. In a way, what happened at Pentecost helps end the separation that happened at the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11). This miracle starts to bring the human family back together again.