---
title:  Jesus joins us in one big family
date:   30/10/2018
---

In Acts 2, Peter preaches a sermon. When he finishes, he asks people to turn away from sin and accept Jesus. Almost 3,000 people decide to accept Jesus as their Savior. God works in the hearts of all these people. Many people who lived far away learned about Jesus. They may have come to Jerusalem with the hope to see Him. Other people may have heard Jesus’ messages in the past. But they did not become His followers until Pentecost. Pentecost is the special time when God poured His Holy Spirit on Jesus’ followers after Jesus went back to heaven. At Pentecost, God helps Jesus’ followers to tell other people about Jesus. They start to tell everyone that Jesus woke up from the dead. Jesus’ followers also tell everyone that God will forgive their sins because of Jesus (Acts 2:38).

`Acts 2:42–47 talks about the many things that Jesus’ followers did together as a church. What helped the church to join as one and do all these wonderful things?`

What is a wonderful way to help new believers grow in spiritual power? The answer is Bible study. Bible study was the first thing that the new believers did. They joined as one group to learn what Jesus’ followers taught. Jesus commanded His followers to make new believers and teach them Bible truth (Matthew 28:20). The community of new believers spent time learning all about Jesus from the apostles. The apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead His church after He went back to heaven. The apostles taught the new believers all about Jesus’ life and work, His teachings, His picture-stories, sermons, and miracles. 

The new believers also spent time praying and eating together. Prayer is an important part of spiritual growth. Does the believers’ eating together mean they took part in the Lord’s Supper? Or does it mean they shared meals together, as Acts 2:46 seems to say? The Bible does not tell us exactly. But what the new believers did shows us an important truth. They spent time together in the temple and in their homes. They were close friends. They shared life together. They worshiped together all the time. 

`What can this example of the new believers teach your local church about agreement, friendship, and witnessing?`