---
title:  The giving heart and the selfish heart
date:   31/10/2018
---

In the book of Acts, Luke tells us about something wonderful that happened because of the deep friendships in the church. Luke says that the new believers shared all things they owned with each other (Acts 2:44, 45).

The new believers did not share their things with each other because someone forced them to. No. They shared everything with each other because they loved each other and because they were close friends. Their sharing shows us that they knew Jesus. The new members supported each other in this way for some time. Luke tells us more about it in Acts 4 and 5. The Bible gives us other examples of sharing, as we will see next in the story about Barnabas.

Barnabas seems to be a rich man who owned land. He sold the land to help the Christian community. Then he brought the money to the church leaders (Acts 4:36, 37). Barnabas is an example for all Christians to follow.

`Read the story about Barnabas in Acts 4:32–37. Now read the story about Ananias and Sapphira in Acts 5:1–11. Why did Ananias and Sapphira behave the way they did?` 

Ananias and Sapphira lied to the Holy Spirit. They also were very covetous. Covetous means you want more than you need or you want something that does not belong to you. Ananias and Sapphira were more than covetous. They were greedy too. Greedy means you have a strong and selfish wish to have more money and own nice things. Maybe selfishness and being greedy can destroy Christian friendship faster than any other sin. But Barnabas is an example in the church of someone who was unselfish and had strong friendships with other Christians. Ananias and Sapphira are completely different from Barnabas. 

The 10th commandment in God’s law is about being covetous. It is a sin hidden in the heart (Exodus 20:1–17). The sin of being covetous does not start with our actions. When we covet, it starts in our minds and thoughts. A selfish heart is seen in selfish actions. Selfish thoughts cause Ananias and Sapphira to lie to God.   

`How can we avoid being greedy or covetous? How can our thanking God for His gifts help us to not be selfish? Why is a thankful heart powerful “medicine” for this evil?`