---
title:  Additional thought
date:   02/11/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Pentecost [the time when God pours His Holy Spirit on His church],” pages 35–46, in The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers].

“What was the reason for the giving and sharing that the new believers did [in Acts 2:44, 45 and Acts 4:32–35]? It was caused by the Holy Spirit. God poured His Spirit on Jesus’ followers. Then the new believers who accepted the Good News were joined as one in heart and mind. They had the same plan. They wanted the work that God gave them to be a success. Selfishness had no place in their lives. Their love for their brothers and sisters in Jesus and their work for God was more important than their love of money and things on this earth. Their works show that they thought that the souls of men were worth more than riches.

“The same thing will happen when the Spirit of God takes control of a person’s life today. People with hearts full of Jesus’ love will follow His example. For us, Jesus became poor. Jesus gave us His riches. Money, time, and the power to change people’s lives are all gifts that God gives us. But these gifts have real value only when we use them to share the Good News about Jesus with other people. The New Testament church shows us this truth. Today, believers can show to everyone on earth that the Spirit’s power has helped them to change. They can show that the Spirit’s power help them stop loving the things on this earth. Believers also can give up things to help other people hear the Good News. When other people see these changes happen in our lives, the truths we share will have the power to change the lives of everyone who hears these truths.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 70, 71, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	What were the reasons for the agreement that the new believers in Jesus experienced? How can we, as a worldwide church today, have the same experience? What do we need now that Jesus’ first followers had before?`

`2.	The New Testament churches collected a big offering to help the poor in the Jerusalem church. How does their gift show us what we should do today? What things can local churches do in their communities to help the poor and other people in need?`