---
title:  More Than an Apology
date:  29/07/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 5:14—6:7**

**More Than an Apology**

I’ll never forget the day my Siberian husky got loose from her kennel and slaughtered all of our neighbor’s sheep. I learned what she had done when a police officer took me to the farmer’s house, where I looked in horror at eight dead sheep scattered around the field.

I expected the farmer to order the officer to shoot my dog or to at least charge me a fortune for my dog’s actions, but he did neither of those things. He just asked what happened. I explained that she had broken free from where we kept her and that I was deeply sorry. The man looked at me and said, “I understand. Please make sure she’s tied up in the future.” And that was it! Even the police officer was shocked by the farmer’s response. I will never forget that day. I was so moved that I volunteered to clean his stalls and mow his lawn for as long as it took to make up for what he had lost from the attack. He agreed, and I worked for him all summer, doing my best to make up for something he had already forgiven me for. This, my friends, is restitution, and it is something God values.

God wants more than just apologies for our sins. He wants us to make things right with those we have wronged. This is an almost forgotten virtue in Christianity today, but in Leviticus 5 and 6, we discover that it’s required of God’s people. Jesus affirmed this, too(Matt. 5:23, 24). These wrongs are outlined in Leviticus 5:14—6:7 and include unfaithfulness in tithes and offerings (“holy things” of Lev. 5:16), lying and deceiving, extortion, stealing, cheating, bearing false witness in a court of law, and silence regarding a sin you witnessed.

This week we will look at the guilt offering, which has both vertical and horizontal elements. The vertical deals with the sin one has committed against God. The horizontal deals with the sins we have committed against those around us.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 5:14—6:7 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 5:14–19. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `