---
title:  Jesus, Our Guilt Offering
date:  30/07/2023
---

#### inGest

The guilt offering was also called the trespass offering because the individual had trespassed into either the rights of God or the rights of those around them. This particular sacrifice was for sins committed either against God by violating His holy things, such as tithe and offerings, or against the people around them through theft, lying, deception, and violence.

This sacrifice was unique because it not only provided atonement for intentional sins but also required that the sinner make restitution. In fact, the restitution was to take place before the transgression offering was sacrificed and the sinner was given divine forgiveness. Sadly, this Old and New Testament condition for forgiveness of sins and right standing with God is all but ignored today.

The guilt offering shows us that sins not only hurt God and require the blood of Jesus to be atoned for and forgiven, but also hurt the people around us (Lev. 5:6, 7). The truth is that there is no hope for any of us if God does not forgive us for our intentional sins since many of our sins are committed intentionally. We either know that what we’re doing is in violation of God’s Word or we should have known, choosing instead to neglect His Word and deny our moral conscience. Thankfully, the guilt or trespass offering points to the forgiveness Jesus provided on Calvary for willfully committed sin as well as unintentional sin.

Jesus can be seen everywhere in the guilt offering. He is the ram “without blemish” and the one exchanged for silver coins (Lev. 5:15). He is the priest who covers our sins with His blood and gives us forgiveness (Lev. 5:16; 7:7). Jesus is the “most holy” one (Lev. 7:1)—the one who was slaughtered for us all (Lev. 7:2). He is spiritual food for our souls (Lev. 7:6). These are just a few of the many details used to describe the guilt offering that clearly point to Jesus, who became our burnt offering, peace offering, fellowship offering, grain offering, and guilt offering. What a wonderful Savior!

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How can we move past the uncomfortable feelings that accompany making restitution with those we have wronged?`