---
title:  Making Things Right
date:  31/07/2023
---

#### inTerpret

When we embrace God’s value of restitution for wrongs done to either Him or others, we are required by our Creator to follow these steps:

1. Confess (Lev. 5:5; Num. 5:6, 7). It is necessary for us to fess up to what we have done. This is not the time to generalize, but to be specific about how we have hurt God and hurt others. This confession is not meant to be corporate, but personal. In other words, this is not the time to confess what your church, country, or collogues have done, but what you personally have done to hurt someone else, intentionally or unintentionally. This confession is made to God and God alone. Notice that this sacrifice is brought “to the Lord” (Lev. 5:6).

2. Make restitution (Lev. 5:16; 6:4, 5; Num. 5:7). The next step in the process is to give back what you have taken and add 20 percent to it. Other passages in the Old Testament had the percentage much higher (see Ex. 22:1; 2 Sam. 12:6; Prov. 6:31), but here in Leviticus 5 it is only 20 percent because the sinner was confessing their sin rather than being caught in it and consequently forced to make restitution. Here we see the mercy of God displayed toward those who are quick to confess their guilt and make amends with God and those they have wronged.

There are some who demand that the descendants of those who have wronged others should be responsible for paying restitution, but this is not supported in Leviticus. God never punishes the children for the sins of their parents unless the children participate (2 Kings 14:6; Ezek. 18:6). But as Christians we are to alleviate any suffering that may have resulted from these wrongs. It’s also important to know that the sinner comes to the altar of their own free will, not by force. God alone reads the heart, and God alone is responsible for vengeance. We can trust Him to sort generational traumas and transgressions out, but in the meantime we must not delay to right our personal wrongs with God and the people in our lives.

What happens if we can’t make restitution for what we’ve done? What if circumstances such as restraining orders or death make it impossible? In the guilt offering, the sinner in those circumstances was required to make monetary restoration to the priests. In other words, they gave the church the money they were no longer able to give those they had wronged (Num. 5:8).

3. Offer a sacrifice (Lev. 6:6). Once the sinner has confessed and restitution has been made, they need depend on the atoning blood of Jesus to cover them. As usual, God offers this with great generosity, especially because the sinner has shown deep and true repentance. They have shown by confession and restitution that they are truly sorry for what they have done.

Interestingly, for the other offerings we have discussed, birds or even flour could be used as a substitute for the bull, goat, or lamb used in the sacrifice. This was so the poor could participate and enjoy the benefits of forgiveness and salvation through faith in Christ. However, for the transgression offering, the only acceptable sacrifice was a ram. This was one of the mostly costly sacrifices, second only to the bull. This no doubt communicated the high cost that sin demands even when one is forgiven. Sin has consequences and, although forgiven through Jesus’ death, often leaves scars in us and others that may be erased only when Christ returns.

`What questions emerge after studying Leviticus 5:14—6:7? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Should we still offer a sacrifice of some kind as part of the process of gaining forgiveness?`

`What are the negative results of thinking about God’s forgiveness as something we have only to ask for instead of what it truly is: a process by which we show how deeply sorry we are?`