---
title:  Salvation or Restitution?
date:  02/08/2023
---

#### inVite

Most people don’t like the concept of guilt. They think it’s oppressive and that to feel it proves one’s lack of faith in the gospel. However, guilt can be a very good thing! Imagine if a person felt no guilt for the evil they had done to others. We have a name for people like this: narcissistic sociopaths. These individuals are some of the most dangerous people on the planet, since they have no qualms about destroying your life, even taking fiendish joy from doing so. Guilt can therefore be a very positive thing, especially if it leads us to repentance and making restitution.

Yes, guilt is a good thing when it leads to confession of sin, restitution to those we have harmed, and ultimately forgiveness and salvation through the cross of Christ. I heard a preacher share the following illustration: When you tell a child not to touch a burning stove, you are treating them with love. However, if they touch a burning stove, they will experience a painful sensation in their hand. This not only confirms that you were right but keeps them from doing it again and causing themself more grief. Guilt is like the stove; it causes us spiritual and emotional pain so that we will not continue to hurt ourselves and others. Guilt also proves that God is right in warning us to not touch the “unclean thing” (Lev. 5:2). Healthy guilt drives us to Jesus, where we find relief, purchased with His blood. Once you have followed the steps of confession, restitution, and sacrifice, all guilty feelings need to be placed on the cross, never to be taken up again.

Perhaps the greatest example of restitution is found in the story of Zacchaeus (Luke 19:1–10). For many years Zacchaeus had used his position as a tax collector to exploit others for his own financial gain, but he had begun to experience guilt and regret for his actions. He was excited when he heard Jesus was coming to town, for he longed for relief from his guilt and a clear path forward for his life. The story goes that he climbed up into a tree to watch Jesus as He approached. Suddenly Jesus stopped under the tree where Zacchaeus was perched and invited Himself over for dinner. Zacchaeus must have almost fallen out of the tree for joy as he gladly received Jesus into his home. Listen to Zacchaeus’ words and see if you can hear the essence of the guilt offering: “Look, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor; and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore fourfold” (v. 8). Notice how Jesus responded to that commitment to make restitution: “Today salvation has come to this house” (v. 9).

So, which comes first, salvation or restitution? The answer is both! Because of the grace of the Lord Jesus in blessing us with both His presence and the gift of salvation, we are moved to make restitution not only to God but to those we have harmed as well. As far as the gospel is concerned, restitution is a necessary fruit of salvation!

**Meditate on Leviticus 5:14—6:7 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you personally through these texts?`

`What are some ways we can make restitution when our wrongs don’t involve money? (For example, cheating, lying, violence, neglect.)`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`