---
title:  The Work of Restitution
date:  03/08/2023
---

#### inSight

“It is inevitable that children should suffer from the consequences of parental wrong-doing, but they are not punished for their parents’ guilt, except as they participate in their sins. It is usually the case, however, that children walk in the steps of their parent” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 306).

“Every converted soul will, like Zacchaeus, signalize the entrance of Christ into his heart by an abandonment of the unrighteous practices that have marked his life. Like the chief publican, he will give proof of his sincerity by making restitution. . . .

“If we have injured others through any unjust business transaction, if we have overreached in trade, or defrauded any man, even though it be within the pale of the law, we should confess our wrong, and make restitution as far as lies in our power. It is right for us to restore not only that which we have taken, but all that it would have accumulated if put to a right and wise use during the time it has been in our possession” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1898, 1940], p. 556).

“All heaven is interested in the interview between the one who has been injured and the one who is in error. As the erring one accepts the reproof offered in the love of Christ, and acknowledges his wrong, asking forgiveness from God and from his brother, the sunshine of heaven fills his heart. The controversy is ended; friendship and confidence are restored. The oil of love removes the soreness caused by the wrong; the Spirit of God binds heart to heart; and there is music in heaven over the union brought about.

“As those thus united in Christian fellowship offer prayer to God, and pledge themselves to deal justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with God, great blessing comes to them. If they have wronged others, they continue the work of repentance, confession, and restitution, fully set to do good to one another. This is the fulfilling of the law of Christ” (Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1915], pp. 499, 500).

“If we have in any manner defrauded or injured our brother, we should make restitution. If we have unwittingly borne false witness, if we have misstated his words, if we have injured his influence in any way, we should go to the ones with whom we have conversed about him, and take back all our injurious misstatements” (Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1956], p. 59).

“It will not be long before probation will close. If you do not now serve the Lord with fidelity, how will you meet the record of your unfaithful dealing? . . . If you have refused to deal honestly with God, I beseech you to think of your deficiency, and if possible to make restitution. If this cannot be done, in humble penitence pray that God for Christ's sake will pardon your great debt. Begin now to act like Christians. Make no excuse for failing to give the Lord His own. Now, . . . while it is not yet too late for wrongs to be righted, while it is called today, if ye will hear His voice, harden not your hearts” (Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1958], p. 132).

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study of Leviticus 5:14—6:7, what needs to be changed in you?`

`What needs to be changed around you?`