---
title:  Standing Strong for Bible Truth
date:   20/04/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Daniel 7:23–25; Jude 1:3, 4; Acts 5:28–32; The Great Controversy, chapters 4–6.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Moses lifted up the snake in the desert. In the same way, the Son of Man must also be lifted up. Then everyone who believes may have eternal [everlasting] life in him” (John 3:14, 15, NIrV).

Izmir is a city in modern Turkey. In Bible times, Izmir used to be the city of Smyrna. John talks about Smyrna in the Book of Revelation. 100,000 people lived in Smyrna during the first century (years A.D. 1–100) and in the second century (years A.D. 101-200). Smyrna was a wealthy city. The people of Smyrna were very loyal to the king of Rome.

Each year, the leaders of Smyrna commanded all the citizens of the city to burn sweet-smelling spices and offer the perfume to the Roman gods. In the second century A.D., a strong community of Christians lived in Smyrna. One leader of the church in Smyrna was named Polycarp. Polycarp was burned alive in Smyrna’s public square because he refused to burn spices to the Roman gods. Right before the city leaders burned Polycarp, they asked him a final time to give up His faith in Jesus. Polycarp answered, “I have served Jesus for 86 years. He never did me any wrong. How can I say anything evil against my King who saved me?”

In ages past, men and women chose to die for their faith. They refused to reject Jesus to save their lives. Their stories give us courage and hope. This week, we will look at important rules that caused these Christians to stay loyal to Jesus, even when they were killed.