---
title:  Respect God
date:   21/04/2024
---

`Read Daniel 7:23–25 and Revelation 12:6, 14. What time in history do these verses talk about?`

Whenever God’s people are loyal to Him, Satan gets angry. He then works with his followers to attack God’s people. Daniel wrote about a time faraway in the future from his time when popes would fight a “war against God’s holy people” (Daniel 7:21, ERV) and “hurt and kill” them (Daniel 7:25, ERV). John also talks about this time. John tells us that, at that time, God’s true church hid in the desert. There, God took care of His church “for three and a half years” (Revelation 12:14, ERV). Revelation 12:6 adds, “The woman [a symbol for God’s church] ran away into the desert to a place that God had prepared [made ready] for her” (ERV). How did God take care of His people in the desert? He “fed” them Bible truth. Bible truth kept God’s people strong during this long, dark time in history when popes controlled both church and kings.

Yes, God made a place of safety for His people during this dark time. During the worst of times, God always makes a safe place for His loyal followers. During times of terrible suffering, God’s people always can rest in God’s love and care for them. (Read Psalm 46.)

Both the 1,260 years in Revelation 12:6 and the 3½ years in Revelation 12:14 talk about the same time in history. (If we do the math, then 3½ years x 360 days in a Jewish year = 1,260 days.) Special messages about time in the Bible often use symbols or word pictures. In the Books of Daniel and Revelation, one day is the same as one real year. This important rule about special time in the Bible is named ‘the day-year rule.’ The Bible talks about the day-year rule in Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:6.

When did the 1,260 days start? This time period started when the Romans pushed the Ostrogoths out of Rome, in A.D. 538. The Ostrogoths were foreigners. After the Romans kicked out the Ostrogoths, a dark time in history started. This time is named the Dark Ages. Many Christians died during the Dark Ages because they obeyed the Bible. Their death is only a rest until Jesus comes back. The Dark Ages continued 1,260 years, until A.D. 1798. In 1798, the French general Berthier removed the pope from Rome.

`How have Daniel and Revelation made your faith strong?`