---
title:  Light Defeats The Dark
date:   22/04/2024
---

`What warning do we read about in Jude 1:3, 4? How does this warning help us understand what happened to the Christian church later on in history?`

The Book of Jude was written sometime before A.D. 65. Jude wrote this book to loyal Christians. Jude encourages them “to fight hard for the faith that God gave his holy people” (Jude 1:3, ERV). Jude warns them of the danger they are in: “Some sinful [evil] men have come into your church without anyone knowing it” (Jude 1:4, NLV). Then Jude adds, “They have used the grace [mercy] of our God in the wrong way . . . to do sinful [evil] things” (Jude 1:4, ERV). Jude’s warning was helpful to Christians in the Dark Ages. At that time, false teachings came into the church. Church leaders mixed human ideas with Bible truth.

God had loyal followers in the Dark Ages who stood for Bible truth. These people included the Waldenses, a group of Christians who lived high in the mountains of Europe. The Waldenses believed that Jesus was the only One who could go to God to get help for them. The Waldenses accepted the Bible as the rule book for their lives.

`Read Revelation 2:10. What promise does God give in this verse to the ones who die for their faith?`

Jesus makes this promise to the church at Smyrna. One of Smyrna’s top gods was Dionysius. Dionysius was the god of wine and crops. When the god’s priests or spiritual leaders died, a crown was put on their heads at their funerals. In Revelation 2:10, John writes about another crown: the crown of life. God will put the crown of life on the heads of His followers who win the fight against Satan.

The crown of life gives courage to God’s followers to die for Him, if needed. The promised crown of life helped the Waldenses to stay strong when they suffered or died for their faith. The Waldenses knew they would see Jesus and live with Him forever. The crown of life also is a promise to us. We may have hard times now. But a crown of life waits for us if we keep our eyes on Jesus.

`What encourages you during hard times? What scares you? What promises help you during those times?`