---
title:  Courage To Stand
date:   23/04/2024
---

`Compare Acts 5:28–32; Ephesians 6:10–12; and Revelation 3:11. What important rule is in these verses?`

The Waldenses were loyal to God. They obeyed His commandments. They believed the Bible was the rule book for their lives. They worshiped Jesus, and not the pope. The Waldenses filled their minds with New Testament stories about faith and courage.

With Peter and Jesus’ other followers, the Waldenses could say, “ ‘We must obey God, not men!’ ” (Acts 5:29, ICB). The Waldenses understood Paul’s advice well, “Let the Lord make you strong. Depend on his mighty power [strength]” (Ephesians 6:10, NIrV). They followed Jesus’ advice: “ ‘Hold on to what you have. Then no one will take away your crown’ ” (Revelation 3:11, NIrV). The Waldenses refused to obey the teachings of Rome. These brave men and women of faith had the courage to stand for Bible truth.

The Waldenses were one of the first groups to translate the Bible into their own language. Jean Leger was a Waldensian man who made copies of the Bible. Leger wrote a story about his work. He told how the Waldenses worked together in teams to make handwritten copies of the Bible. The Waldenses worked in secret. They copied the Bible in their mountain communities in the North of Italy and in the South of France. Waldensian parents taught their children at an early age to remember large parts of the Bible. Later, when these children grew up, many of them traveled across Europe as merchants. They shared Bible truth with their customers. Some Waldensian youths went to the universities. Whenever these young men got the chance, they shared Bible truth with other students. At the right time, they gave away precious copies of the Bible. Many of these brave young men were killed for sharing Bible truth or handwritten parts of the Bible. The Waldenses didn’t understand every Bible teaching. But they shared the Bible truth that they knew and copies of books of the Bible with people whenever they got the chance. Their sharing of the Bible kept its truth alive for hundreds of years.

`In Proverbs 4:18, Solomon says that people who live right are the same as a shining light. How can we be the same as the Waldenses and let the light of Jesus shine in our own communities?`