---
title:  John Wycliffe
date:   24/04/2024
---

`What did both David and Jeremiah believe about the Bible? Read Psalm 19:7–11; Psalm 119:140; Psalm 119:162; and Jeremiah 15:16 for the answers. How did these ideas about the Bible help start the Protestant Reformation? The Protestant Reformation was the time during the 1500s in Europe when men made big changes to the Catholic religion. These men rejected the false teachings of the Catholic church. The changes they made led to the start of the Protestant churches.`

The leaders of the Protestant Reformation loved the Bible. They studied the Bible because they wanted to do so.

As these men studied the Bible, the Holy Spirit changed them. “John Wycliffe was one of the first leaders of the Protestant Reformation. Wycliffe got an education from the Bible that changed his life. The Bible made Wycliffe a better man. When we work hard to understand Bible truth, we will become smart and wise, too. Also, when we study the Bible, our every thought and feeling will be improved. The Bible makes us patient. The Bible helps make us holy and to be the same as God in our hearts. The Bible gives us courage. Nothing else we study can cause us to feel this way. Bible study helps us to do more and better things. When we carefully study the Bible, we come into contact with God’s own mind. If people studied the Bible, they would have stronger minds and hearts. We can’t get this education from studying human ideas.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 94, adapted.

`What advice did Paul give to Timothy about sharing Bible truth? Read 2 Timothy 2:1–3 for the answer.`

Before John Wycliffe’s time, very little of the Bible was translated in the English language. Wycliffe spent his life translating the Bible into the English language for two reasons. First, the Bible changed his life. Second, Wycliffe’s heart was filled with Jesus’ love. So, he wanted to share Bible truth with other people.

After Wycliffe died, the pope ordered men to dig up Wycliffe’s bones and burn them. The men threw Wycliffe’s ashes in a river. The water carried his ashes far away into the sea. In the same way, Bible truth went far and wide because of Wycliffe’s work.