---
title:  Filled With Hope
date:   25/04/2024
---

`What was the experience of loyal Christians during the Middle Ages? How were they part of the worldwide war between good and evil?`

What helped the Waldenses to trust the Lord when they were attacked for their faith? What gave Huss, Jerome, Tyndale, Latimer, and other Protestants courage to stay loyal to God during the Middle Ages? Many of these men and women were killed with the sword or burned alive. Faith in the promises of God kept these men and women strong. They believed Jesus’ promise: “ ‘You will live because I live’ ” (John 14:19, ERV). God gave them the strength they needed to die with courage. These Protestants felt joyful because God judged them worthy to suffer and die for their Lord. Their faith was a powerful witness to other people.

The Protestants in the Middle Ages looked past their suffering to God’s promises about the future. These men and women knew that Jesus won the fight against death when He woke up from the dead. They held onto Jesus’ promises in the Bible and won the fight, too.

`Read the promises from Jesus in John 5:24; John 11:25, 26; and 1 John 5:11–13. What hope do these promises give you? How do these promises help us during hard times?`

John Huss was thrown in prison for many months. But his faith stayed strong. The prison was cold and damp. While Huss was there, he got a fever that almost killed him. “God’s mercy kept Huss alive. In Huss’s final weeks of suffering before he died, peace from heaven filled his heart. He wrote to a friend during this time: ‘I write this letter from prison with my hand in chains. Tomorrow, I expect to die. . . . With God’s help we will meet again in the peace of the future life. Then you will learn about the mercy God showed me. He supported me in every test and hard time.’ . . . In his gloomy prison, Huss saw that faith in God will win the fight against evil in the end.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 107, 108, adapted.

Paul’s warning has special meaning for us today: “Let us hold firmly to the hope that we have confessed. We can trust God to do what he promised” (Hebrews 10:23, ICB). God’s promises kept His people strong in the past. So, His promises keep us strong today.