---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   26/04/2024
---

“God gave many Bible truths to the men He chose as His servants. God showed them the false teachings of Rome. But God didn’t give His servants all the Bible truth at one time. God used these men to lead people away from the false teachings of Rome and into Bible truth. Many things got in the way of their work. But God continued to lead His servants. He gave them as much Bible truth as they could accept. These men weren’t ready to get all the Bible truth at one time. What if God had given them all the light of Bible truth at one time? What would have happened? They would have turned away from it, the same as people turn away from the bright sun after living for a long time in the dark. So, God gave the Protestant leaders His Bible truth little by little. He gave them as much as His people could accept. In the ages to come, other loyal workers followed these Protestant leaders. These new workers led God’s people into more Bible truth. The workers helped change the spiritual lives of church members and to make them better people.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 103, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why does God give us Bible truth little by little, and not all at one time? How does this important rule help us to understand the best way to share Bible truth with other people?`

`How does new Bible truth connect with Bible truth that we already accept and believe? Why must new Bible truth never go against old “light” or truth?`

`Wherever you may live, the ideas, habits, and beliefs of the community around you will in some way go against Bible teachings. What are some of these ideas, habits, and beliefs in your community? What do you think is the best way to solve this problem? How do you think the church should solve it? How can we be good citizens in this life while staying loyal to our beliefs and Bible truth?`

`How does John Huss’s letter in Thursday’s study change your thinking today? What do you like the most about Huss’s letter?`