### Quit Talking and Do Something!

Years ago, one of our Adventist magazines printed a picture story about a stinky swamp. A walking path went through the middle of the swamp. People who walked on the path complained about the terrible smell. Sometimes the smell was so awful that people on the path fainted and fell in. Villagers who lived near the swamp heard the cries of the people as they fell in and died.

So, the villagers held a meeting to solve the swamp problem. The villagers had many meetings. Experts shared their ideas about the cause of the problem. A few people suggested possible ways to solve the problem. But no one did anything to fix the problem. The people continued to meet and talk. For many years, the talks continued. People wrote important papers about the topic. Guest speakers came to the village and talked about the swamp. The villagers held yard sales to make money to pay for meals for the people who spent so much time sitting in the meetings talking about the swamp. After a while, the villagers collected enough money to build a special room so that the people in the meetings wouldn’t be bothered by the cries of the lost and dying when they fell in the swamp. But no one did anything to help the people in trouble. No one did anything to stop more people from getting lost in the swamp. The people only talked.

For sure, the Seventh-day Adventist Church and your Sabbath School class don’t want to behave the same as the people in that village. We love our time together to pray, think, share, and talk. At the same time, we want to do more. We want to help the people around us. We want to make our communities better. We want to make life on this earth better for people, too. We want to finish God’s work so that Jesus can come back.

This quarter’s Bible study guide helps us to get out and do something for the people around us. In our study, we will read about the exciting experiences of people who work for God. We will learn about ideas that can help us to share Bible truth with our neighbors. We will learn how to share Jesus with non-Christian people who may not know anything about Him at all. These ideas will help us do our work for God. Each week, in Thursday’s study, we will share with you two tasks. These tasks will help you to get out in your neighborhood or community and start doing something to win people to Jesus. We will share Bible truth and give you learning tools and ideas to help you. We also

will encourage you to pray for the Holy Spirit to lead you and help you use what you learn. Spend a few minutes each week talking with your class members. Talk about how things went. What worked? What didn’t? What did you learn? Remember, this time is not about bragging about all the wonderful work you did. Make this time about sharing. As you share your ideas and experiences with each other, your Sabbath school group will come up with new ideas. Prayer lists will grow (both your personal list and the group’s list).

Finally, we hope that you will remember this quarter’s study as a time when the Holy Spirit blessed your efforts and worked miracles for the honor of Jesus and His Name.

The General Conference first started Global Mission Centers in 1980 to help share the Good News about Jesus with people everywhere. The Global Mission Centers are under the control of the General Conference Office of Adventist Mission. At this time, there are six centers. Their job is to help the church start new groups of Christians among non-Christian people groups on the earth.

_The managers for the six worldwide mission centers wrote this guide.These managers are Petras Bahadur, Richard Elofer, Kleber Gonçalves, Clifmond Shameerudeen, Doug Venn, and Gregg Whitsett. Gary Krause, Homer Trecartin, and Jeff Scoggins also helped write the guide. (Gary is the manager for Adventist Mission. Homer is the retired manager for Global Mission Centers, and Jeff is the planning manager for Global Mission.)_