---
title:  Light Shines in the Dark
date:   13/04/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 14:6; Acts 20:27–32; John 17:15–17; Proverbs 16:25; The Great Controversy, chapter 3.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus said to them, ‘The Light [Jesus] will be with you for a little while yet [longer]. Go on your way while you have the Light so you will not be in the dark. When a man is walking in the dark, he does not know where he is going’ ” (John 12:35, NLV).

The book of Revelation uses two animals as word pictures for the devil. The devil is shown both as a dragon and as a snake (Revelation 12:9). Satan is the same as a dragon because he wants to destroy God’s people. Satan is also the same as a snake. He uses all his evil skill to trick God’s people with lies. Years after Jesus died, Satan caused the Romans to kill thousands of Christians. The Christians refused to worship Roman gods. So, the Romans tortured the Christians for their faith. The Romans also fed Christians to hungry lions. Or the Romans burned Christians alive. Did this stop Christianity from growing? No! Many Christians continued to share the Good News about Jesus. The church grew.

Satan’s attacks against the church only made the church grow strong. So, Satan came up with a new plan to destroy God’s people. What was Satan’s plan? He “joined” the church! How? He caused many people to get baptized who really didn’t understand Bible truth. These new members brought Satan’s false ideas about God into the church.

God was with His church in these dark times. He helped His true followers stay loyal to Bible truth.