---
title:  'Giving Up Some Bible Truth: Satan’s Sneaky Plan'
date:   14/04/2024
---

`How are Jesus and Satan different from each other? Compare John 14:6 with John 8:44 for the answer.`

Jesus is Truth. So, everything that Jesus says is true. Bible truth comes from God. God’s behavior shows support for all our teachings and beliefs.

Satan lies about everything. He invented lying, tricks, and false information. Satan uses lies to lead people away from Bible truth. In Eden, Satan tricked Eve with lies. Satan’s lies caused Eve to doubt God. Satan convinced Eve that God lied to her. “The snake said to the woman, ‘No, you for sure will not die!’ ” (Genesis 3:4, NLV) if she ate the fruit. Satan, with his lies, gave a wrong meaning to everything God said. Worse, Satan changed God’s words to lies. Satan continues to use these same sneaky tricks today. He causes people to doubt the Bible. Satan teaches lies as Bible truth and says his lies come from the Bible.

`Compare Proverbs 23:23; John 17:17; and John 8:32. What do these verses teach us about the Bible’s wisdom?`

“Satan knew that the Bible told men the truth. The Bible showed men that Satan was sneaky and a liar. People who read the Bible didn’t fall for Satan’s tricks. The Savior Himself used Bible truth to win the fight against Satan. Every time Satan attacked Jesus, Jesus said, ‘The Bible says.’ Jesus answered Satan’s lies with powerful wisdom from the Bible. The Bible was the same as Jesus’ shield. Satan can control only those people who don’t study the Bible. They will more easily accept his control and the pope’s leadership. The Bible commands us to worship only God, and not man. So, Satan tries to prevent people from learning Bible truth. In the past, Satan hid the Bible and its truths from people. The Roman Catholic Church followed this same plan. For hundreds of years, the Catholic Church didn’t allow people to read the Bible or own a copy at home. Catholic religious leaders or priests taught things that the Bible didn’t say. They taught that the pope was God’s chosen king on earth. So, people accepted the pope as the head of both the church and the government.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 51, adapted.

`How does Satan try to change Bible truth today?`