---
title:  Wild And Hungry Wolves
date:   15/04/2024
---

`On his way to Jerusalem, Paul stops in the city of Miletus. There Paul meets with church leaders from Ephesus. Paul warns them about the future. What two things does Paul warn the leaders about? Read Acts 20:27–32 for the answer.`

Paul warns the leaders about two things that will happen after he leaves them. First, Paul says, “ ‘Yes, I know that when I am gone, hungry wolves will come in among you. They will try to destroy the church’ ” (Acts 20:29, NLV). The wolves are a word picture for people who will hurt Christians for their faith. Not long after Paul left, everything happened just as he warned. In the first century (years A.D. 1–100) and second century (years A.D. 101–200), the Romans attacked Christians for their faith. These Christians refused to worship the Roman king or bow down to Roman gods. The Romans threw these loyal Christians in prison or burned them alive.

Second, Paul warns the church leaders about another danger. This danger will come from inside the church. Paul says, “ ‘Also, men from your own group will begin to teach things that are wrong. They will lead some of the Lord’s followers away from the truth to follow them’ ” (Acts 20:30, ERV). Men will bring false teachings into the church. In the fourth century (years A.D. 301–400) and in the fifth century (years A.D. 401–500), church leaders mixed false teachings with Bible truth to win more people to Jesus. What happened? The church rejected important Bible truth.

`What happens when the church rejects Bible truth? Read 2 Thessalonians 2:7–12 for the answer.`

The church in Paul’s day already started to reject Bible truth. False teachers taught that people didn’t need to obey God’s law. Some Christians brought statues of false gods into the church and named them after Christian saints. Church leaders said that the statues helped non-Christians to accept Christianity more easily. The church also replaced the Sabbath with Sunday. Sunday was the day of worship for the Roman sun god. The church started to worship God on Sunday in honor of Jesus’ resurrection when He woke up from the dead. The Bible does not support the change of the Sabbath to Sunday. Today, most Christians continue to worship God on this false sabbath.