---
title:  The Bible Keeps Us Safe
date:   16/04/2024
---

`Compare John 17:15–17 and Acts 20:32. What advice do Jesus and Paul give us? What should we do to protect ourselves from Satan’s lies and tricks?`

The Bible is God’s Word. The Bible shows us God’s plan for our lives. The Bible can’t give us wrong advice. So, we can always trust the Bible and its teachings. The Bible also shows us God’s plan to save sinners. Paul says, “God has breathed [put] life into all Scripture [the Bible]. It [the Bible] is useful for teaching us what is true. It is useful for correcting our mistakes. It is useful for making our lives whole again. It is useful for training us to do what is right” (2 Timothy 3:16, NIrV). The whole Bible comes from God, not just parts of it. We must accept that all of the Bible comes from Him. If we don’t, Satan can trick us with his lies.

The Bible shows us God’s love in the worldwide war between good and evil. The Bible also shows us Satan’s lies and evil tricks. Satan hates the Bible. He does everything he can to destroy its control over our lives.

Without the Bible, how much can we understand about God’s plan to save sinners? Or how much can we understand about the life and teachings of Jesus? Without the Bible, can we understand Jesus’ death on the cross? What about Jesus’ waking up from the dead or His Second Coming?

The Bible tells us about all these important teachings. The Bible and the Bible only must be the reason for our faith and everything we believe.

So, we must reject the teachings of anyone who says the Bible is not from God. Many Christians who say they love the Bible cause people to doubt its teachings. These Christians teach that the Bible comes from man and not from God. They say, “Kings, shepherds, fishermen, poets, and priests or spiritual leaders wrote the Bible. They lived a long time ago. Their ideas are old-fashioned. So, they don’t really have anything important to say to us today.”

Really?! The Bible teaches us that these thinkers are mistaken. For sure, we know that the Bible is filled with important truth for our lives today!

`What part does the Bible have in God’s plan to save us? Read Psalm 119:105, 116, 130, 133, and 160 for the answer.`