---
title:  The Way Home
date:   17/04/2024
---

God made our minds. His Holy Spirit communicates with us in our thoughts. The Spirit invites us to use our minds to explore the mysteries of nature. With our minds, we can invent or imagine many new things and ideas. As Christians, we don’t stop thinking when we go to church. At the same time, human thinking can’t understand Bible truth without help from the Holy Spirit. People did not invent Bible truth. Bible truth comes from God.

`How does Satan plan to trick us? Read Proverbs 16:25; Judges 21:25; and Isaiah 53:6 for the answer.`

The Bible warns us about one of Satan’s most powerful lies. Satan tries to convince us that we can understand God’s plan for our lives without the Holy Spirit or the Bible. We may think an idea, belief, or choice is correct. But in God’s eyes, this way of thinking may be wrong.

A few years ago, my wife and I (Pastor Mark Finley) went hiking in the forest near the hotel where we stayed for the night. We hiked for almost an hour. I was sure I could find our way back with no problem. But soon we were lost in the forest. The sun was setting. I feared we might be stuck in the woods. Then we met some other hikers who knew the way back. My wife and I were at least five miles away from our trail! The hikers led us to a road where they parked their car. They gave us a ride back to our hotel. We got back safely because we found someone who knew the way.

God knows the way home, too. He has not left us alone on our trip to heaven. The Holy Spirit shows us the way in the Bible. Without the Bible, we can’t understand right and wrong or good and evil. When anything or anyone says that Bible truth is wrong, we can be sure that they are wrong. False ideas are never safe. We always can trust ideas and teachings that agree with Bible truth. So, we must make the Bible our final judge of truth and good behavior.

`Why do we need the help of the Holy Spirit to understand Bible truth? At the same time, how do our minds help us understand the Bible? Now look at the special message about time in Daniel 2. This special message tells us about things that will happen in history, from the time of Babylon to the future. How does this special message about time convince our minds that we can trust the Bible?`