---
title:  Battle For The Mind
date:   18/04/2024
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:3–6. In verse 4, Paul says, “The devil who rules [controls] this world [planet] has blinded the minds of those [people] who do not believe” (ICB). What does Paul mean when he says that Satan makes people blind? How do these people get back their sight?`

The Greek word for “minds” in 2 Corinthians 4:4 is “noema.” “Noema” means our thoughts or understanding. The SDA Bible Commentary gives us this helpful explanation about 2 Corinthians 4:4: “The war between Jesus and Satan is a fight for people’s minds. (Read Romans 7:23, 25; Romans 12:2; 2 Corinthians 3:14; 2 Corinthians 11:3; Philippians 2:5; Philippians 4:7, 8.) Satan wants to ‘blind’ people’s minds. In other words, the devil doesn’t want people to learn Bible truth. How does Satan blind our minds? Satan causes us to eat and drink too much. He keeps us so busy with the things of life that we have no time for Bible study. Satan also fills our hearts with pride so that we worship self and not God. Then we think that we don’t need God at all.”—Volume 6, page 854, adapted.

The people in 2 Corinthians 4:4 are lost. They have no knowledge. Why not? Are they dumb? Of course not! They have no knowledge because they refuse to know Bible truth. Many of these lost ones had the chance to learn Bible truth. But they refused to believe. Satan “blinded” their eyes. Satan’s kingdom is a kingdom where there is no light, only dark. The SDA Bible Commentary adds, “The Good News is the only thing that helps us ‘see’ Satan’s evil plans. The Good News leads us from Satan’s dark lies into Bible truth.”—Volume 6, page 854, adapted. The New Testament teaches us the Good News about the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. The resurrection is the time when Jesus woke up from the dead. The whole Bible is about Jesus (John 5:39).

`Read John 1:4, 5, 9, and 14. What do these verses tell us about Jesus?`

To the first Christians, Jesus was the same as the light. Jesus saved His followers. He changed their lives. The Good News protected them from Satan’s tricks and lies. Jesus always has loyal men and women who stand for Bible truth. In the early years of the church, Jesus’ love, mercy, and truth made the dark become bright again.