---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   19/04/2024
---

“In every age, God’s enemies are filled with the same spirit of hatred and anger against Bible truth. God needs His servants to watch and be ready for Satan’s attacks. God’s servants must also be loyal to Him and Bible truth. When Jesus lived on this earth, He told His followers, ‘ “I tell you this, and I say it to everyone: ‘Be ready!” ’ Mark 13:37 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 56, 57, adapted.

Satan works hard to cause people to doubt the Bible. One way Satan weakens our faith in the Bible is to use science. Another way Satan weakens faith in the Bible is to get Bible thinkers to teach false ideas. If we accept these ideas, they will weaken our trust in the Bible. Let’s look at one example of a false teaching. The Book of Daniel was written more than 500 years before Jesus was born. But many Bible thinkers say that the Book of Daniel was written only 150 years or so before Jesus was born. If Daniel wrote his part of the Bible 500 years earlier, then he would have been correct about everything that happened in the future. That would mean Daniel really was a special messenger from God. And that can’t be possible in the view of these thinkers. So, they say the Book of Daniel wasn’t written when it says it was written. The Book of Daniel had to be written hundreds of years later. Sad to say, this lie about the Bible is only one of many lies that modern Bible thinkers teach. Many people accept this lie because they trust the Bible thinkers who teach it. No wonder Paul warns us, “Test everything. Keep what is good” (1 Thessalonians 5:21, ICB).

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does Satan do today to cause people to doubt the Bible?`

`What is our best protection against misunderstanding the Bible?`

`In the worldwide war between good and evil, Satan wants people to believe that God is mean and nasty. How does Satan trick people into believing this lie? How does God answer Satan’s lie?`

`Peter says that no man “made up” any part of the Bible (2 Peter 1:20, NLV). So, we must not change the Bible to make it say what we want it to mean. How do we protect ourselves from this sin?`