---
title:  Tithes and Offerings
date:  10/12/2019
---

Nehemiah’s reforms of the temple services included the implementation of tithes and offerings.

`Read Numbers 18:21–24; Malachi 3:10; Matthew 23:23; 1 Corinthians 9:7–14; 2 Corinthians 9:6–8; and Hebrews 7:1, 2. What do these texts teach us about the importance of tithes and offerings, not just in the temple service, but for today, as well?`

Without the collection of tithes and offerings, the temple could not function. When tithing stopped, the services in the temple fell apart, and the whole worship system was in jeopardy. As temple personnel went to look for other jobs to feed their families, they couldn’t focus on taking care of the temple. Consequently, the worship of God diminished. “The tithing system is beautiful in its simplicity. Its equity is revealed in its proportional claim on the rich and on the poor. In proportion as God has given us the use of His property, so we are to return to Him a tithe.

“When God calls for the tithe (Mal. 3:10), He makes no appeal to gratitude or generosity. Although gratitude should be a part of all our expressions to God, we tithe because God has commanded it. The tithe belongs to the Lord, and He requests that we return it to Him.” —Seventh-day Adventists Believe . . . (2nd ed.) (Boise, Idaho: Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 2005), p. 304.

Just as happened with the Israelite temple, our church would fall apart without the support of the members’ tithes and offerings. Our church services would not function without people who are paid to put time into quality ministry, planning, and management of the church for God. Worship of God also would be diminished in quality. Most important, though, without tithes and offerings evangelism would be nonexistent.

Moreover, we give tithes because God established the system in His Word. There are times God doesn’t have to explain why He set something up. He expects us to trust that He is in control. We should find out and be informed on how the system works, but then entrust it into His hands.

`Why is tithing so important for our own spirituality and as a measure of our own trust in God?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God lays His hand upon the tithe, as well as upon gifts and offerings, and says, “That is Mine. When I entrusted you with My goods, I specified that a portion should be your own, to supply your necessities, and a portion should be returned to Me.”  

As you gathered in your harvest, storing barns and granary for your own comfort, did you return to God a faithful tithe? Have you presented to Him your gifts and offerings, that His cause may not suffer? Have you looked after the fatherless and the widow? This is a branch of home missionary work that should by no means be neglected.—_Counsels on Stewardship_, p. 46. 

God is constantly bestowing upon you the blessings of this life; and if He asks you to dispense His gifts by helping the various branches of His work, it is for your own temporal and spiritual interest to do so, and thus acknowledge God as the giver of every blessing. God, as the Master Worker, co-operates with men in securing the means necessary for their sustenance; and He requires them to co-operate with Him in the salvation of souls. He has placed in the hands of His servants the means wherewith to carry forward His work in home and foreign missions. But if only half the people do their duty, the treasury will not be supplied with the necessary funds, and many parts of the work of God must be left incomplete.—_The Review and Herald_, December 23, 1890.

God might have carried forward His work in the world, and have provided for the poor, without the cooperation of man. He asks for our service and our gifts, not only that we may thus manifest our love for Him and our fellow men but because the service and sacrifice for the good of others will strengthen the spirit of beneficence in the giver’s heart, allying us more closely to Him who was rich, yet for our sakes became poor, that we through His poverty might be rich. And it is only as we thus imitate the Saviour’s example that our characters will be developed in His likeness.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 303.

Now, just now, everyone who claims to be a child of God should bring of his means to God’s treasury, that there may be a supply to draw from to provide the workers with facilities for entering new places to present the truth to those who have never heard it. Let there be no dearth in the Lord’s treasury. From His treasure God supplies all our necessities. Shall we be only consumers? Shall we not be producers, giving of our means that the truth may be presented to many people, who will acknowledge and accept the message, and in turn give back to God? . . .  

We are not only to receive God’s gifts. With a full sense of our accountability we are to bring a return to Him, that there may be in His treasury for the advancement of His work an ample supply of means, a supply from which His workmen may draw to enable them to carry the message from city to city and from country to country. God’s self-sacrificing workers should be provided with sufficient facilities to make their work a success.—_The Upward Look_, p. 360.