---
title:  Did Not Your Fathers Do Thus?
date:  12/12/2019
---

Nehemiah’s zeal for the Sabbath day is admirable. Nehemiah was so passionate about observing the Sabbath correctly that he even promised to “lay hands” on the merchants from other nations. In other words, he would have personally intervened if he had caught them in the city or by the gates on the Sabbath again. As a governor he had official responsibilities to make sure that this commandment was kept properly. “Nehemiah fearlessly rebuked them for their neglect of duty. ‘What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the Sabbath day?’ he sternly demanded. ‘Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath.’ He then gave command that ‘when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath,’ they should be shut, and not opened again till the Sabbath was past; and having more confidence in his own servants than in those that the magistrates of Jerusalem might appoint, he stationed them at the gates to see that his orders were enforced.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 671, 672.

Nehemiah’s warning about Sabbath desecration, along with other warnings about violating it, had apparently echoed down through the ages even to Jesus’ time. We know this because the Gospels time and again portray Jesus as struggling with the religious leaders over proper Sabbath keeping.

`Read Matthew 12:1–8, Mark 3:1–6, Luke 6:6–11, and John 5:5–16. What was the issue here, and how does an understanding of ancient Israel’s history help explain why the controversy arose?`

In their zeal, however misguided, to make sure that the Sabbath was not “desecrated,” these religious leaders were so fanatical that they accused Jesus, the “Lord of the Sabbath” (Luke 6:5, NKJV), of violating it. Talk about taking a good thing too far! The irony is that while many of these men expressed great concern about the law, they forgot the “weightier matters” of that law: “justice and mercy and faith” (Matt. 23:23, NKJV).

`How can we, as individuals and as a church, be careful not to make the same kind of mistake that these men did, whether with the Sabbath or with something else that we believe is important to the faith?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If it was right for David to satisfy his hunger by eating of the bread that had been set apart to a holy use, then it was right for the disciples to supply their need by plucking the grain upon the sacred hours of the Sabbath. . . .  

Christ would teach His disciples and His enemies that the service of God is first of all. The object of God’s work in this world is the redemption of man; therefore that which is necessary to be done on the Sabbath in the accomplishment of this work is in accord with the Sabbath law. Jesus then crowned His argument by declaring Himself the “Lord of the Sabbath,”—One above all question and above all law. . . . 

Jesus did not let the matter pass without administering a rebuke to His enemies. He declared that in their blindness they had mistaken the object of the Sabbath. He said, “If ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless.” Matthew 12:7. Their many heartless rites could not supply the lack of that truthful integrity and tender love which will ever characterize the true worshiper of God.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 285, 286.

Some were much surprised that we would exert ourselves on the Sabbath to bring them to the meeting. They had been taught that Sundaykeeping consisted largely in physical inactivity; and they thought that because we were zealous in the matter of Sabbathkeeping, we would keep it according to the teachings of the Pharisees.  

We told our friends that in the matter of keeping the Sabbath, we studied the example and teachings of Christ whose Sabbaths were often spent in earnest effort to heal and to teach; that we believed that one of our sisters who was nursing a sick family was keeping the Sabbath as much as the one who was leading a division in the Sabbath school; that Christ could not please the Pharisees of his day, and that we did not expect that our efforts to serve the Lord would satisfy the Pharisees of our day.—_Selected Messages_, book 3, p. 259.

The Sabbath school and the meeting for worship occupy only a part of the Sabbath. The portion remaining to the family may be made the most sacred and precious season of all the Sabbath hours. Much of this time parents should spend with their children. 

The Sabbath—oh!—make it the sweetest, the most blessed day of the week. . . .

Parents can . . . make the Sabbath a delight if they will take the proper course. The children can be interested in good reading or in conversation about the salvation of their souls. But they will have to be educated and trained. The natural heart does not love to think of God, of heaven, or of heavenly things. There must be a continual pressing back of the current of worldliness and inclination to evil and a letting in of heavenly light.—_Child Guidance_, pp. 532, 533. 