---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/12/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pp. 115–126, in Steps to Christ.

“As he set before them God’s commands and threatenings, and the fearful judgments visited on Israel in the past for this very sin, their consciences were aroused, and a work of reformation was begun that turned away God’s threatened anger and brought His approval and blessing.

“There were some in sacred office who pleaded for their heathen wives, declaring that they could not bring themselves to separate from them. But no distinction was made; no respect was shown for rank or position. Whoever among the priests or rulers refused to sever his connection with idolaters was immediately separated from the service of the Lord. A grandson of the high priest, having married a daughter of the notorious Sanballat, was not only removed from office, but promptly banished from Israel. ‘Remember them, O my God,’ Nehemiah prayed, ‘because they have defiled the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.’ ”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 673, 674.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read the Ellen G. White quote above. In class, talk about what you think about what Nehemiah did, not making any exceptions, even for those who seemed truly to love their wives and did not want to separate from them. Do you think Nehemiah was too strong, too unyielding, and could have made some exceptions? Why, or why not? In this same context, how does the church exercise discipline in love and understanding—and at the same time be consistent and not diminish God’s standards of truth?`

`Though we know that there is nothing legalistic about keeping the seventh-day Sabbath—just as there is nothing legalistic about not coveting, stealing, or lying—how can we be careful not to make Sabbath keeping (or obedience to any commandment) into something that becomes legalistic? Why is keeping the Cross and what Christ has done for us on the cross always before us the most powerful protection against the trap of legalism?`

`At the same time, how can we protect ourselves against the dangers that come from slow but steady compromise, such as what Nehemiah confronted?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Steps to Christ_, “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pp. 115–126; 

_This Day With God_, “He Is Always With Me,” p. 275.