---
title:  Tile 92
date:  03/11/2018
---

**Introduction**: Eph. 2:19, 20

The playhouse came together as the final tiles for the roof were placed. When the last piece was glued, everyone gave a sigh of relief.

Door called a group meeting. Just as he started his welcome, the school doors opened with a bang and first-graders rushed toward the newly built playhouse. They climbed the roof, smudged the windows, and pounded on the door. The children made sure to explore everything. Door and Window were almost overwhelmed with the attention the playhouse was getting, but they felt loved. They did not want the children to leave. Not everyone, however, enjoyed the experience.

Tile 92 disliked the kids. He disliked recess. He disliked his job. He didn’t see it as love but, rather, as annoyance. He wished he could leave, and soon his opportunity came.

A fierce storm blew across the playground. Every part of the playhouse held on to each other tightly so that they wouldn’t be blown apart. Everyone, that is, except Tile 92. He didn’t want to be held. He wanted to leave the playhouse and do his own thing. His friends shouted encouragement and tried to convince him to hold on, but he didn’t listen. He let go. And soon a gust of wind tore him from the group and landed him far away in a puddle.

The next day, the playground was a mess, leaves and branches everywhere. The playhouse remained intact—except for the visible hole left by Tile 92. The parts were sad to see him gone, because no one could fill that hole the way he had.

During recess the kids ran to the playhouse and played inside its cozy walls. As Tile 92 watched, he felt sorry for them. Though he was in a puddle, he was much happier watching from a distance—until the day came when, without the protection of the others, he drifted on a wave of rainwater into the storm drain. It wasn’t long before he understood that when you work with friends, family, and community, you can do a work far greater than when you work by yourself. Ephesians 2:19 and 20 says, “You are members of God’s family. Together, we are his house, built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. And the cornerstone is Christ Jesus Himself” (NLT).

Christ is our cornerstone, and together we are His house. As a church family, we each have an important part to play: to hold tightly to each other while also reaching out to those who feel like drifting away. As we continue to unify our church, let us remember our role is to keep building upon our foundation, growing in number as God’s family and losing no one in the process.

---

_Lisa Poirier, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_