---
title:  The Key to Survival
date:  04/11/2018
---

**Evidence**: 1 Cor. 12:12

It seems that certain individuals from Corinth considered some gifts to be better or more important than others, and they were condescending to those who had spiritual gifts that they believed were of lesser value. Learning this, Paul countered the error by comparing the followers of Jesus to a human body, which is made up of many different parts. While some parts may seem more insignificant than others, the reality is that each part is important, and their working together in harmony is crucial to the optimal functioning of the body.1

Using the human body as a metaphor of unity was not entirely new to Paul’s audience. In fact, a well-known fable in the Greco-Roman world told of a body whose members thought that the stomach was getting all the benefits without doing any work. In response to the stomach’s perceived idleness, the other members of the body rebelled, only to find that the revolt was causing the body to weaken and perish.2 While this fable was often told with political connotations, Paul used elements of this familiar tale to make a spiritual point. If the individual followers of Jesus—who collectively constitute the body of Christ—are not able to operate in unity and value one another’s roles in the church, their future is grim. Additionally, while the body of Christ is composed of individual members, the body is ultimately one, and each person’s actions—or inaction— affect the body as a whole.

In today’s society, people seem to be interested in highlighting their differences and to be looking for reasons why they cannot work in harmony with certain individuals. Unfortunately, some of these attitudes are slipping into our church and causing serious rifts among church members. Let the words of the apostle Paul remind us this week that the survival of our church depends on our ability to work together and that each individual has a vital role to play within the body of Christ.

**React**

`Do you think it is important for us to work together and get along with those in the church, even those with whom we greatly disagree? Why or why not?`

---

<sup>1. Katharine Doob Sakenfeld et al., The New Interpreters’ Dictionary of the Bible: A-C, vol. 1 (Nashville: Abingdon, 2006), p. 646.</sup>

<sup>2. E. Schweizer, Exegetical Dictionary of the New Testament, vol. 3, (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1993), pp. 323, 324.</sup>

_Cecilia Ramos, Brookeville, Maryland, USA_