---
title:  Quarried by Truth for the Temple of God
date:  06/11/2018
---

**Testimony**: Eph. 2:19–22

“The Jewish temple was built of hewn stones quarried out of the mountains; and every stone was fitted for its place in the temple, hewn, polished, and tested before it was brought to Jerusalem. And when all were brought to the ground, the building went together without the sound of ax or hammer. This building represents God’s spiritual temple, which is composed of material gathered out of every nation, and tongue, and people, of all grades, high and low, rich and poor, learned and unlearned. These are not dead substances to be fitted by hammer and chisel. They are living stones, quarried out from the world by the truth; and the great Master Builder, the Lord of the temple, is now hewing and polishing them, and fitting them for their respective places in the spiritual temple. When completed, this temple will be perfect in all its parts, the admiration of angels and of men; for its Builder and Maker is God.”1

“This world is God’s workshop and every stone that can be used in the heavenly temple, must be hewed and polished, until it is a tried and precious stone, fitted for its place in the Lord’s building. But if we refuse to be trained and disciplined, we shall be as stones that will not be hewed and polished, and that are cast aside at last as useless.”2

“Paul and the other apostles, and all the righteous who have lived since then, have acted their part in the building of the temple. But the structure is not yet complete. We who are living in this age have a work to do, a part to act. We are to bring to the foundation material that will stand the test of fire—gold, silver, and precious stones, ‘polished after a similitude of a palace’ (Psalm 144:12). To those who thus build for God, Paul speaks words of encouragement. . . . ‘If any man’s work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward.’ The Christian who faithfully presents the word of life, leading men and women into the way of holiness and peace, is bringing to the foundation material that will endure, and in the kingdom of God he will be honored as a wise builder.”3

**React**

`Why is it significant to understand the transition from the physical temple to God’s spiritual temple? Why was there no need of a physical temple after Jesus’ resurrection?`

---

<sup>Kathryn Lale, Boise, Idaho, USA</sup>

_1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p.180.

2. Ellen G. White, “Words for the Young,” The Youth’s Instructor, August 31, 1893.

3. Ellen G. White, Reflecting Christ, p. 224._