---
title:  Playing Nice With Others
date:  07/11/2018
---

**How-to**: Mark 3:25; Luke 10:27–37; John 14:21; 1 Cor. 12:12–26; Eph. 2:19–22

Have you ever run into someone you don’t like? Maybe he teased you or took the last spot on the soccer team, or maybe her mother was a convict, or he voted for the wrong person. Some people just irk you! When it comes to church unity, it’s how we act when we’re with the people we don’t like that matters.

Luke 10:27–37 gives us the story of the good Samaritan, but first it tells us the two commands we are to follow: love God above all and love your neighbor as yourself. Jesus said that everyone we meet is our neighbor. And John 14:21 reminds us that if we love Him, we will do as He says.

Before we can truly be Christian and enter into unity, we have to forgo other allegiances, including sports teams; school affiliations; political parties; denominations; and racial, cultural, and gender identity in favor of God. After shedding the weight of our other allegiances, we can see those around us as God sees them: our siblings in Christ.

After establishing Christianity as our impetus, a reason to “play nice” springs to view. As Ephesians 2:19–22 says, any person you meet may be a fellow sojourner and a part of the same temple. It would be terrible to sabotage our own team. We may have our differences, but God can use our distinct attributes and qualifications to accomplish miraculous things.

1 Corinthians 12 reminds us that we are the body of Christ, with many different parts. We may be tempted to prioritize our own strengths and proclivities above those of another, but as we listen to and experience testimonies from others, it becomes clear that some character “flaws” prove to be remarkably effective in service of the gospel.

The next time someone gets under your skin, remember that God asked you to love them not only as a way of showing that you love Him but also because you might otherwise be working against His team. It’s like Jesus said, long before Abraham Lincoln was born: “ ‘If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand’ ” (Mark 3:25, NIV). If we focus on what unites us (Christ) rather than what divides (Satan’s distractions), we demonstrate our love for our Father in heaven.

**React**

`Do you know someone whom everyone tries to avoid? What are some ways you can be neighborly to that person?`

---

_Murray Carson, Columbia, Maryland, USA_