---
title:  A Young Adult’s Take on Unity in the Church
date:  08/11/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 2

What does unity in the church mean to me as a young adult today, right now? When I think about unity in Scripture, some stories and passages come to mind—John 17, Acts 2 and 3, Numbers 13 and 14, and others. But what do these passages tell us about unity and the effects thereof?

I am a gamer. I love playing video games, board games—any type of games. Some of my fondest memories of gaming are not playing by myself but playing with others either in person or online. We come together as a unit, with different skills and ideas, for a purpose. This is the definition of unity. Online gaming has unity that is unhindered by race, class, place, or time. For me to witness a team working together in harmony is the best feeling in the world. Friends are made and experiences shared.

This same experience is to happen for the church in every age. But what does this unity consist of? How does it come together? And what are the end results?

The Lord Jesus Christ prayed a prayer of unity in John 17. This is the recipe for the early rain in Acts 2. The Spirit of Truth would empower it. It was based on truth for the benefit of others, and it was to be a witness to the world about the Christ and who He is. We see the result of this prayer at Pentecost in Acts 2, when three thousand souls came to know Christ and the early church began.

However, the opposite of this prayer is like the turning back of Israel at the border of Canaan. The people didn’t believe the faith-filled report of Joshua and Caleb but instead allied themselves with the faithless spies and forfeited the promises of God.

What principles can we millennials use today? We are a family in Christ, and the family is the basic unit. Within this family we are not bonded by blood; we are bonded by the Word of God. When we follow the recipe in John 17 and Acts 2, we “bring our hearts into unity with Christ, and our lives into harmony with His work,” so that “the Spirit that fell on the disciples on the Day of Pentecost will fall on us.”1

Who doesn’t want this? I know I do. This power is the prequel to Christ’s return, and the greatest witness to the world concerning Christ will be seen again. Let us take heed to Christ and His servant and hasten the coming of the Lord.

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8, p. 246.</sup>

_Jamaal Roberts, College Park, Maryland, USA_