---
title:  Everyone Belongs
date:  09/11/2018
---

**Exploration**: 1 Cor. 12:12

**Conclude**

In Scripture, we’re given various metaphors that help us to understand how God’s church is supposed to work. For example, the metaphor of a body, with its various parts and systems all working together to accomplish each of our daily activities, is a powerful illustration of the unity and diversity that is needed among God’s people. The following are some practical ideas that may help us to imaginatively explore these metaphors.

**Consider**

- Thinking about how houses are like human bodies, in that they comprise many interconnected systems (plumbing, electrical, heating, and so on). Imagine what would happen if any one of these systems breaks down. How does it affect the other systems? How might this relate to the operation of the church?
- Starting a particular song with only one voice or instrument. Gradually add another instrument or voice at regular intervals, until all are included. Compare the sound of a lone participant and the entire group. (If you are involved in music at your church, try this exercise with the group.)
- Brainstorming additional metaphors or imagery that were not included in this week’s study that may further illustrate the concept of unity among diverse parts to achieve a common goal. Discuss each proposed image in your small group.
- Memorizing John 17:22 and 23, the prayer that Jesus prayed for His disciples before His death. Add it to your own prayers. Perhaps repeat it to yourself quietly as you enter the church building on Sabbath morning. Observe whether this makes a difference in your own behavior at church.
- Observing a small “patch” of nature—perhaps your own backyard or a little area of your local park. Try to count as many different types of animals and plant life as you can. Think about how all of these organisms are interconnected, and how they depend for their existence upon one another.
- Reflecting on just how many parts of your body are involved in a routine task (brushing your teeth, for example), while engaged in that simple task. Imagine what would occur if any one of those parts malfunctioned.


**Connect**

1 Corinthians 12; 1:10; Ephesians 4:1–13; Colossians 3:12–17; John 17:22, 23; Psalm 133; 1 Peter 3:8, 9; Romans 12:3–8; Matthew 23:8; Galatians 3:27, 28.

Ellen G. White, “Christian Unity,” Review and Herald, April 27, 1897.

---

_Rob Fuller, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_