src/en/2019-02-er/11/01.md, before:

---
title: 'Families Of Faith'
date: 08/06/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 10:1–28, 34, 35; Genesis 18:19; Genesis 12:1–5; Judges 2:7–13; John 3:16.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “So we, too, should run the race that is before us and never quit. We should remove from our lives anything that would [will] slow us down and the sin that so often makes us fall. We must never stop looking to Jesus. He is the leader of our faith, and he is the one who makes our faith complete. He suffered death on a cross. But he accepted the shame of the cross as if it were nothing because of the joy he could see waiting for him. And now he is sitting at the right side of God’s throne” (Hebrews 12:1, 2, ERV). 

**FAMILIES** are changed every day by the different beliefs and ways of life in their community. Sometimes these ways of life are good. Sometimes they are not. Some of them are very powerful. They can even change the church. Just drive past any church with a sign out front that invites you to worship on Sunday. That sign for Sunday worship shows you that some ideas and ways of life are powerful.

The ways of life around us bring us many problems and questions. The good news is that the Bible gives us answers to these questions. This week, we will learn how we can be “families of faith” in our communities. “Then you will be pure [clean] and without blame. You will be children of God without fault among sinful [fallen] and evil people. Then you will shine among them like [the same as] stars in the sky” (Philippians 2:15, NIrV).

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/01.md, after:

---
title: 'Families Of Faith'
date: 08/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 10:1–28, 34, 35; Genesis 18:19; Genesis 12:1–5; Judges 2:7–13; John 3:16.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “So we, too, should run the race that is before us and never quit. We should remove from our lives anything that would [will] slow us down and the sin that so often makes us fall. We must never stop looking to Jesus. He is the leader of our faith, and he is the one who makes our faith complete. He suffered death on a cross. But he accepted the shame of the cross as if it were nothing because of the joy he could see waiting for him. And now he is sitting at the right side of God’s throne” (Hebrews 12:1, 2, ERV). 

**FAMILIES** are changed every day by the different beliefs and ways of life in their community. Sometimes these ways of life are good. Sometimes they are not. Some of them are very powerful. They can even change the church. Just drive past any church with a sign out front that invites you to worship on Sunday. That sign for Sunday worship shows you that some ideas and ways of life are powerful.

The ways of life around us bring us many problems and questions. The good news is that the Bible gives us answers to these questions. This week, we will learn how we can be “families of faith” in our communities. “Then you will be pure [clean] and without blame. You will be children of God without fault among sinful [fallen] and evil people. Then you will shine among them like [the same as] stars in the sky” (Philippians 2:15, NIrV).
