src/en/2019-02-er/11/02.md, before:

---
title: 'Hold On Tight To The Good Things'
date: 09/06/2019
---

Christians must take the Good News about Jesus everywhere on earth. As we do this work, we will meet people with different beliefs and behaviors. Their ways of life may seem strange to us. One of the big questions Bible workers must answer is: How should I behave in a land with a way of life that is different from mine? Some new ways of life will not make us feel comfortable at all.

`Read Acts 10:1–28, 34, 35. What important rule can we learn from these verses? How can this rule help us learn not to judge people who do not live the same way we do?`

Jesus died for each person on this earth. But many people do not know about this wonderful truth. So, we must go tell them about it. We must remember that God loves everyone the same. So, we as Christians must respect people in the same way too. 

`Read Acts 15:19, 20, 28, 29; 1 Corinthians 2:2; and 1 Thessalonians 5:21, 22. What important rules do these verses teach us? What did the New Testament Christians decide about sharing the Good News with people who followed other ways of life?`

Communities and their ways of life show us that people on this earth are weak and full of sin. Some ways of life may have beliefs that agree with the Bible. Can you think of examples? What about the family? Many people put a lot of value on families and communities. Bible workers can accept the good beliefs in a community. They can help these beliefs grow stronger in the community too.

At the same time, we must never make God’s truth less important than it is. Church history shows us what happens when people made their own beliefs and ways of life more important than Bible truth. Satan brags that he is the god of the whole earth. He is happy when he confuses people and mixes them up about the truth. But Jesus bought us with His blood. He came to save us from sin and Satan’s lies. God’s Spirit guides His followers into all truth (John 16:13). 

`Is your faith different from the beliefs and the way of life of the people around you? Or do you share many of their beliefs and ways of life?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/02.md, after:

---
title: 'Hold On Tight To The Good Things'
date: 09/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Christians must take the Good News about Jesus everywhere on earth. As we do this work, we will meet people with different beliefs and behaviors. Their ways of life may seem strange to us. One of the big questions Bible workers must answer is: How should I behave in a land with a way of life that is different from mine? Some new ways of life will not make us feel comfortable at all.

`Read Acts 10:1–28, 34, 35. What important rule can we learn from these verses? How can this rule help us learn not to judge people who do not live the same way we do?`

Jesus died for each person on this earth. But many people do not know about this wonderful truth. So, we must go tell them about it. We must remember that God loves everyone the same. So, we as Christians must respect people in the same way too. 

`Read Acts 15:19, 20, 28, 29; 1 Corinthians 2:2; and 1 Thessalonians 5:21, 22. What important rules do these verses teach us? What did the New Testament Christians decide about sharing the Good News with people who followed other ways of life?`

Communities and their ways of life show us that people on this earth are weak and full of sin. Some ways of life may have beliefs that agree with the Bible. Can you think of examples? What about the family? Many people put a lot of value on families and communities. Bible workers can accept the good beliefs in a community. They can help these beliefs grow stronger in the community too.

At the same time, we must never make God’s truth less important than it is. Church history shows us what happens when people made their own beliefs and ways of life more important than Bible truth. Satan brags that he is the god of the whole earth. He is happy when he confuses people and mixes them up about the truth. But Jesus bought us with His blood. He came to save us from sin and Satan’s lies. God’s Spirit guides His followers into all truth (John 16:13). 

`Is your faith different from the beliefs and the way of life of the people around you? Or do you share many of their beliefs and ways of life?`
