src/en/2019-02-er/11/03.md, before:

---
title: 'The Way Of Life Around You And Your Family'
date: 10/06/2019
---

`“ ‘I have chosen him. He must direct [teach] his children to live in the way that pleases me. And he must direct the members of his family after him to do the same. So he must guide all of them in doing what is right and fair. Then I, the Lord, will do for Abraham what I have promised him’ ” (Genesis 18:19, NIrV).`

Families are the “building blocks” of communities. So, of course, many of our beliefs and ways of life are tied to family. Here are a few examples of some ways of life from the past. These examples seem strange to us today. In one community, the men were expected to eat the bodies of their dead parents. In another community, a man who wanted a wife had to chop off his enemies’ heads first. Then the man gave the heads to his bride’s father as a gift. After that, the father allowed the man to marry his daughter. We do not live this way today. But we have our own ideas and beliefs about kids, dating, divorce, marriage, and parents. Your ideas may be different from someone else’s. We must remember that our ideas are different as we share the Good News with people in faraway lands. We must learn to understand people and their ways of life. At the same time, we must not let their different ways of life change what we believe. We also must understand how these ways of life can change our families.

**Read about the people in the verses below. How did the ways of life around these people change their families? What important rules do these verses teach us?**

`Genesis 16:1–3`

`Genesis 35:1–4`

`Ezra 10`

`1 Kings 11:1`

As Christians, we must live in peace as much as we can with the ways of life around us. We may accept the good. But we must stay away from anything that makes our faith weak.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/03.md, after:

---
title: 'The Way Of Life Around You And Your Family'
date: 10/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`“ ‘I have chosen him. He must direct [teach] his children to live in the way that pleases me. And he must direct the members of his family after him to do the same. So he must guide all of them in doing what is right and fair. Then I, the Lord, will do for Abraham what I have promised him’ ” (Genesis 18:19, NIrV).`

Families are the “building blocks” of communities. So, of course, many of our beliefs and ways of life are tied to family. Here are a few examples of some ways of life from the past. These examples seem strange to us today. In one community, the men were expected to eat the bodies of their dead parents. In another community, a man who wanted a wife had to chop off his enemies’ heads first. Then the man gave the heads to his bride’s father as a gift. After that, the father allowed the man to marry his daughter. We do not live this way today. But we have our own ideas and beliefs about kids, dating, divorce, marriage, and parents. Your ideas may be different from someone else’s. We must remember that our ideas are different as we share the Good News with people in faraway lands. We must learn to understand people and their ways of life. At the same time, we must not let their different ways of life change what we believe. We also must understand how these ways of life can change our families.

**Read about the people in the verses below. How did the ways of life around these people change their families? What important rules do these verses teach us?**

`Genesis 16:1–3`

`Genesis 35:1–4`

`Ezra 10`

`1 Kings 11:1`

As Christians, we must live in peace as much as we can with the ways of life around us. We may accept the good. But we must stay away from anything that makes our faith weak.
