src/en/2019-02-er/11/04.md, before:

---
title: 'Your Family And Times Of Change'
date: 11/06/2019
---

Change is part of life. It is part of family life too. We cannot escape it. Some change happens with no warning: death, troubles, war, sickness, moving to a new house, or losing your job. Some change happens because of changes in your government or country. Other changes are caused by your community and its way of life.

**Here are some examples of hard times and difficult changes that happened to people in the Bible. How did the hard times change their lives? What gave them strength and support during this time? Would you behave differently in these stories? If yes, how?**

`Abraham, Sarah, and Lot (Genesis 12:1–5)`

`Hadassah (Esther 2:7–9)`

`Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah (Daniel 1)`

Change can cause loss. Then we worry about what will happen in the future. Some families are stronger than other families. Change will help them to grow. They will become more spiritual. But change can break families that are weak. Satan attacks us during times of change and trouble when we feel weak and afraid. He hopes to make us doubt God and not trust Him. But the stories we read can teach us how to stay strong during change and hard times.

`Do you know someone (or even a whole family) who is in the middle of an awful change in life? What can you do to help and encourage them?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/04.md, after:

---
title: 'Your Family And Times Of Change'
date: 11/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Change is part of life. It is part of family life too. We cannot escape it. Some change happens with no warning: death, troubles, war, sickness, moving to a new house, or losing your job. Some change happens because of changes in your government or country. Other changes are caused by your community and its way of life.

**Here are some examples of hard times and difficult changes that happened to people in the Bible. How did the hard times change their lives? What gave them strength and support during this time? Would you behave differently in these stories? If yes, how?**

`Abraham, Sarah, and Lot (Genesis 12:1–5)`

`Hadassah (Esther 2:7–9)`

`Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah (Daniel 1)`

Change can cause loss. Then we worry about what will happen in the future. Some families are stronger than other families. Change will help them to grow. They will become more spiritual. But change can break families that are weak. Satan attacks us during times of change and trouble when we feel weak and afraid. He hopes to make us doubt God and not trust Him. But the stories we read can teach us how to stay strong during change and hard times.

`Do you know someone (or even a whole family) who is in the middle of an awful change in life? What can you do to help and encourage them?`
