src/en/2019-02-er/11/05.md, before:

---
title: 'The Faith Of Our Fathers'
date: 12/06/2019
---

`What happened to Israel’s faith in God after Joshua and the other leaders who were Joshua’s age died? Read Judges 2:7–13 for the answer.`

Studies show that the people who start a church or religion have very strong faith in their beliefs. These people are the first ones to take a strong stand for these truths. But by the time their kids and grandkids grow up, things change. The kids and grandkids may go along with their parents’ or grandparents’ religion because of habit. But often they do not have the same “fire” burning for the truth in their hearts. 

`Someone said: “God has no grandchildren, only children.” Why is that statement true? For the answer, also read John 1:12, 13; John 3:7; and 1 John 5:1.`

What is one of the best ways for older Christians to teach younger Christians about the truth? The older Christians must tell the younger ones what they believe. Remember, our learning what our parents believe is not the same thing as our believing the truth ourselves. Young people must study and accept the truth too. Is being a Christian only about belonging to a church? No. It is much more than that. True faith is not something you are born with. It is not something you can give to your children. Each person needs to know Jesus for himself or herself. Parents can teach their kids about Jesus. Then the choice to follow Jesus is up to the child. Churches and parents need to do all they can to help children want to make the right choices. In the end, we each must decide for ourselves to be saved or lost. 

`Joe grew up not believing in God. Then he had a powerful experience with Jesus. Joe gave his life to the Lord and joined the Seventh-day Adventist Church. He married an Adventist woman. They had a few kids. Joe and his wife took the children to church and taught them about Jesus. But the children did not have any interest in their parents’ faith. That broke Joe’s heart. He said, “Oh, if only my kids had the experience with Jesus I had!” If you had been there, what would you say to Joe?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/05.md, after:

---
title: 'The Faith Of Our Fathers'
date: 12/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What happened to Israel’s faith in God after Joshua and the other leaders who were Joshua’s age died? Read Judges 2:7–13 for the answer.`

Studies show that the people who start a church or religion have very strong faith in their beliefs. These people are the first ones to take a strong stand for these truths. But by the time their kids and grandkids grow up, things change. The kids and grandkids may go along with their parents’ or grandparents’ religion because of habit. But often they do not have the same “fire” burning for the truth in their hearts. 

`Someone said: “God has no grandchildren, only children.” Why is that statement true? For the answer, also read John 1:12, 13; John 3:7; and 1 John 5:1.`

What is one of the best ways for older Christians to teach younger Christians about the truth? The older Christians must tell the younger ones what they believe. Remember, our learning what our parents believe is not the same thing as our believing the truth ourselves. Young people must study and accept the truth too. Is being a Christian only about belonging to a church? No. It is much more than that. True faith is not something you are born with. It is not something you can give to your children. Each person needs to know Jesus for himself or herself. Parents can teach their kids about Jesus. Then the choice to follow Jesus is up to the child. Churches and parents need to do all they can to help children want to make the right choices. In the end, we each must decide for ourselves to be saved or lost. 

`Joe grew up not believing in God. Then he had a powerful experience with Jesus. Joe gave his life to the Lord and joined the Seventh-day Adventist Church. He married an Adventist woman. They had a few kids. Joe and his wife took the children to church and taught them about Jesus. But the children did not have any interest in their parents’ faith. That broke Joe’s heart. He said, “Oh, if only my kids had the experience with Jesus I had!” If you had been there, what would you say to Joe?`
