src/en/2019-02-er/11/06.md, before:

---
title: 'The Good News About Jesus Keeps Getting Better'
date: 13/06/2019
---

Eugene Peterson wanted to make a copy of the Bible that was easy to read. So, he made The Message Bible. In The Message Bible, Peterson put the word “message” in the same place as the word “gospel,” which means “Good News.” We continue to need the Good News today. It is the message we need most. God commands Christian families to live the Good News and share it with everyone they can.

`Read John 3:16; Matthew 28:5–7; Romans 1:16, 17; 1 Corinthians 2:2; and 2 Corinthians 5:18–21. What is “the message” for us in these verses?`

What was the first news that Jesus’ followers shared with everyone on earth? They preached the resurrection of Jesus. The resurrection of Jesus is the truth that Jesus woke up from the dead. Christian families today also share this good news too. “ ‘Run fast and tell His followers that He is risen [woke up] from the dead’ ” (Matthew 28:7, NLV). Jesus’ resurrection makes everything else true that Jesus said about Himself. We can believe what He said about God, His love for sinners, and forgiveness. We can trust His promise to us about everlasting life.

The New Testament shows us how the Good News changed the lives of Jesus’ first followers. They opened their homes to each other. They studied the Bible together. They prayed and ate together. They shared their money and land. They took care of each other. And what happened? Whole families gave their lives to Jesus! Did that happen because Jesus’ followers were perfect? No! Did they have disagreements and fights? Yes. But Jesus’ followers saw their deep need of God and for each other. They worked hard to have peace and agreement in the church. They wanted Jesus’ prayer for them at the Last Supper to come true. They wanted to be one with each other in heart and mind (John 17:20–23). So, they shared their faith with each other. They witnessed to people who did not believe the truth. They put their lives in danger for their beliefs.

We must want the same things too. We must do what Jesus’ followers did. Yes, we live on an earth where people do not seem to care much about God or the Bible. But the Spirit wants to fill their hearts with love for the Good News. When the Spirit fills our hearts, we will want to share the Good News with other people too. Nothing will be able to stop us!

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/06.md, after:

---
title: 'The Good News About Jesus Keeps Getting Better'
date: 13/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Eugene Peterson wanted to make a copy of the Bible that was easy to read. So, he made The Message Bible. In The Message Bible, Peterson put the word “message” in the same place as the word “gospel,” which means “Good News.” We continue to need the Good News today. It is the message we need most. God commands Christian families to live the Good News and share it with everyone they can.

`Read John 3:16; Matthew 28:5–7; Romans 1:16, 17; 1 Corinthians 2:2; and 2 Corinthians 5:18–21. What is “the message” for us in these verses?`

What was the first news that Jesus’ followers shared with everyone on earth? They preached the resurrection of Jesus. The resurrection of Jesus is the truth that Jesus woke up from the dead. Christian families today also share this good news too. “ ‘Run fast and tell His followers that He is risen [woke up] from the dead’ ” (Matthew 28:7, NLV). Jesus’ resurrection makes everything else true that Jesus said about Himself. We can believe what He said about God, His love for sinners, and forgiveness. We can trust His promise to us about everlasting life.

The New Testament shows us how the Good News changed the lives of Jesus’ first followers. They opened their homes to each other. They studied the Bible together. They prayed and ate together. They shared their money and land. They took care of each other. And what happened? Whole families gave their lives to Jesus! Did that happen because Jesus’ followers were perfect? No! Did they have disagreements and fights? Yes. But Jesus’ followers saw their deep need of God and for each other. They worked hard to have peace and agreement in the church. They wanted Jesus’ prayer for them at the Last Supper to come true. They wanted to be one with each other in heart and mind (John 17:20–23). So, they shared their faith with each other. They witnessed to people who did not believe the truth. They put their lives in danger for their beliefs.

We must want the same things too. We must do what Jesus’ followers did. Yes, we live on an earth where people do not seem to care much about God or the Bible. But the Spirit wants to fill their hearts with love for the Good News. When the Spirit fills our hearts, we will want to share the Good News with other people too. Nothing will be able to stop us!
