src/en/2019-02-er/11/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 14/06/2019
---

Ellen G. White, “In the Court of Babylon,” pages 479–490, in Prophets [special messengers for God] and Kings; “Words of Caution [warning],” pages 324, 329; “No Respect [no favorites] of Persons With God,” pages 330, 331, in Gospel [about the Good News] Workers; “Rejoicing [feeling joy] in the Lord,” pages 115–126, in Steps to Christ [Jesus].

“The religion of Jesus makes us better people. It improves our thoughts and actions. At the same time, the religion of Jesus shows us that God loves us very deeply. God bought us with the blood of His Son, who died for us. At the feet of Jesus, we all meet together. The poor meet together with the rich. The simple meet together with the wise. As we meet at Jesus’ feet, we forget our wish to be first. When we look at Him, we stop thinking we are better than anyone else. Our sins cut His body. He left heaven to come and save us. His life of love puts the selfishness in our hearts to shame! We feel ashamed of our pride. We feel ashamed of our wish to be first. The religion of Jesus makes us clean and holy. It separates us from sin. It joins us all as one in the truth. We all depend on Jesus, who bought us with His blood. Jesus connects us with God again.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, page 330, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Talk with your class about your answers to the questions in Sunday’s study.`

`2. Read again what Ellen G. White wrote. What important rules do you see in her words? How can following these rules change your family life in a big way?`

`3. What is your local church doing to help young people in the church accept Jesus? What can you do as a class to help the church in this important work?`

`4. In what ways does your community and its way of life help your family grow stronger? Does your community cause your family to become weak too? If yes, in what ways?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/11/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 14/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Ellen G. White, “In the Court of Babylon,” pages 479–490, in Prophets [special messengers for God] and Kings; “Words of Caution [warning],” pages 324, 329; “No Respect [no favorites] of Persons With God,” pages 330, 331, in Gospel [about the Good News] Workers; “Rejoicing [feeling joy] in the Lord,” pages 115–126, in Steps to Christ [Jesus].

“The religion of Jesus makes us better people. It improves our thoughts and actions. At the same time, the religion of Jesus shows us that God loves us very deeply. God bought us with the blood of His Son, who died for us. At the feet of Jesus, we all meet together. The poor meet together with the rich. The simple meet together with the wise. As we meet at Jesus’ feet, we forget our wish to be first. When we look at Him, we stop thinking we are better than anyone else. Our sins cut His body. He left heaven to come and save us. His life of love puts the selfishness in our hearts to shame! We feel ashamed of our pride. We feel ashamed of our wish to be first. The religion of Jesus makes us clean and holy. It separates us from sin. It joins us all as one in the truth. We all depend on Jesus, who bought us with His blood. Jesus connects us with God again.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, page 330, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Talk with your class about your answers to the questions in Sunday’s study.`

`2. Read again what Ellen G. White wrote. What important rules do you see in her words? How can following these rules change your family life in a big way?`

`3. What is your local church doing to help young people in the church accept Jesus? What can you do as a class to help the church in this important work?`

`4. In what ways does your community and its way of life help your family grow stronger? Does your community cause your family to become weak too? If yes, in what ways?`
