---
title:  The Baptism and Filling of the Holy Spirit
date:   28/01/2017
---

### The Baptism and Filling of the Holy Spirit

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
Mark 1:8; Ephesians 5:18; Acts 13:52; Luke 11:8–10; Acts 5:32; Galatians 5:16–26.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “ ‘The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come so they can have life. I want them to have it in the fullest possible way’ ” (John 10:10, NIrV).

AS CHRISTIANS, we must be filled with the Holy Spirit. Without Him, our witness will be powerless. Without Him, our Christian life will be a burden. For example, suppose we are educated, talented, and speak well but do not have the Spirit. Then we cannot experience life as God meant for us to. And we would not be assured of salvation. We would not know the joy that comes from serving our Lord. We would be Christians in name only. And a Christian in name only is not really a Christian at all.

But Jesus wants us to live life to the fullest. He wants us to live happy and meaningful lives. He wants to give us life as it is meant to be lived. He wants our lives to be rooted in the Source of all life: Jesus Christ. Jesus our Creator is the only way to eternal life. He says, “ ‘I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me’ ” (John 14:6, NKJV). This means that this fullness of life is possible only by being joined to Jesus. And being joined to Jesus happens only through the Holy Spirit’s working in our lives. 

This week we will study what the Bible says about the baptism of the Spirit. We will learn what it means to be filled with Him. We also will look at some proof that we are, indeed, filled with the Spirit.

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **baptism of the Holy Spirit**—the experience by which a person receives both forgiveness of sins and the gift of the Holy Spirit. And now he or she belongs to Christ.