---
title:  BEING FILLED WITH THE HOLY SPIRIT
date:   30/01/2017
---

### BEING FILLED WITH THE HOLY SPIRIT 

(Ephesians 5:18)

`Read Ephesians 5:18; Acts 13:52; and Romans 8:9. What does it mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit? How does being filled with the Spirit happen in our lives?`

First, we are to be baptized and belong to Christ. Then we are to live in the power of the Spirit. To live in the Spirit means to be filled with the Spirit. There are many verses in the New Testament about people who are filled with the Spirit (Luke 1:41, 67; Acts 2:4; Acts 4:8, 31; Acts 9:17; Acts 13:9). The apostle (teacher; leader) Paul uses the word fi lling to describe a person who has completely given his or her life to God. This person is open to being guided by the Holy Spirit. God’s own work can now happen in his or her life.

What does it mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit? It means we yield every part of our lives to His power to change us. Then our walk, talk, and thoughts will show Jesus. 

We receive the Spirit by believing what we hear about Him (Galatians 3:2). And we receive the Spirit through faith (Galatians 3:14) at our baptism (Titus 3:5, 6). But we also need to seek (try) to be filled with the Holy Spirit every day. We cannot live off a powerful experience that we had last year or last month or even yesterday. We need God’s Spirit to fill us each day. Why? Because each day brings new tests (trials) and hardships.

In Acts 13:52, the Greek word translated as “filled” really means “being [all the time] filled.” So, being filled with the Spirit is not a one-time event. It is something that we should seek and receive every day. In other words, this filling has to be repeated. Then every part of our lives will be filled with His presence. And then we will be given the power to live as we should. 

Being filled with the Holy Spirit does not mean that we possess (have) more of Him. It means that He possesses (has) more of us. We must give every part of our lives to the Spirit every day. Only then can He use us for God’s glory. 

“I wish to help you understand that those who have Jesus living in the heart by faith have received the Holy Spirit. Every person who receives Jesus as his or her personal Savior also receives the Holy Spirit. The Spirit will guide each believer. He will make a person holy. And He will witness to him or her about God.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 14, page 71.
