---
title:  'REQUIREMENTS: PART 1'
date:   31/01/2017
---

### REQUIREMENTS: PART 1

(Acts 2:37, 38)

`Read Acts 2:37, 38. According to these verses, what is the first requirement for receiving the Holy Spirit?`

One requirement for receiving the gift of the Holy Spirit is repentance (turning away from sin). Hearing the Word of God can lead us to understand how sinful and lost we are. True sorrow for sin is more than just feeling sorry for the terrible results of our sins. It is a complete change of heart and mind. It helps us see sin for what it really is: ugly and evil. This is because sin is war against God. The only way that we can experience true repentance is to be touched by the love of God: “Do you disrespect God’s great kindness and favor? Do you disrespect God when He is patient with you? [Do you not] realize that God’s kindness is meant to turn you away from your sins?” (Romans 2:4, NIrV). 

`Read Galatians 3:14 and James 1:6–8. These verses say we must trust in God. We cannot receive the Holy Spirit without faith in His Word. Why?` 

Jesus has promised to send the Spirit as His representative. In faith, we receive the promised gift. But suppose we doubt God’s promise and do not trust His Word. Then we are like a double-minded person. Such a person cannot expect to receive anything from God. 

`Read Luke 11:8–10, 13. According to these verses, why does continuous and steady prayer make a difference?`

God is not unwilling to give us the Spirit. He wants to. God is good and kind. He is kinder to us than we can be, even to our own children. So continuous and steady prayer does not change His mind. Prayer does not bring God down to us. Prayer changes us. It brings us into God’s presence. It brings us up to Him. Our prayers simply show our firm purpose. They prepare us for the gift of the Spirit. 

`How can we learn to be more serious, hard working, and unselfish in our prayer lives? Why is it important that we learn these things?`