---
title:  'REQUIREMENTS: PART 2'
date:   01/02/2017
---

### REQUIREMENTS: PART 2

(Acts 5:32)

`Read Acts 5:32. Why is obeying God’s Word an important requirement for receiving the Holy Spirit?`

Then, as now, the Holy Spirit is given to all who obey God. In the Bible, love and obedience go hand in hand. And true faith is shown in obedience. We must trust God with all our hearts. Then we will obey His commandments. As Jesus says, “ ‘ Anyone who loves me will obey my teaching’ ” (John 14:23, NIrV). 

Obedience is a choice. It leads to a lifestyle that follows God’s will (plan). God’s will is shown in His law. Obeying God helps us to accept Jesus as our Lord (Luke 6:46). In 1 John 2:4, 5, we read, “Suppose someone says, ‘I know him.’ But suppose this person does not do what God commands. Then this person is a liar and is not telling the truth. But if anyone obeys God’s word, then that person truly loves God. Here is how we know we belong to him” (NIrV). Those are strong words. From John, we also know that “those who obey his commands remain joined to him. And [God] remains joined to them” (1 John 3:24, NIrV). 

`Read Jude 18–21. Why do we need to avoid all unclean thoughts and behavior? How will keeping our hearts and minds pure help us to be filled with the Spirit?` 

The fire of the Holy Spirit cannot keep burning in our lives when we are worldly minded. So, we need to be filled with God’s love. We need to stay connected with God through prayer. If we do, prayer and God’s love will protect us from unclean thoughts and acts. If we do, prayer and God’s love will help us to have a spirit of power, love, and discipline (2 Timothy 1:6, 7). We must fight a fierce battle with self. Only then will we be the kind of people we are meant to be. Of course, we cannot do it ourselves. We need God’s help. We have one of two choices. We can surrender our hearts and minds to the Holy Spirit. Or we can allow our sinful flesh (desires) to rule us. The choice is ours. 

`“There is no limit to how useful someone can be who puts self aside. This person will make room for the Holy Spirit to work upon his or her heart. He or she will live a life that belongs completely to God.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 250, 251. How can you live out these words in your own spiritual life?`