---
title:  THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIVING FOR SELF AND LIVING FOR CHRIST
date:   02/02/2017
---

### THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIVING FOR SELF AND LIVING FOR CHRIST

(Galatians 5:16–26)

`Read Galatians 5:16–26. Compare these verses with Ephesians 5:1–9, 17–20. List the differences between living for self and living a life that is filled with the Spirit.`

A person who does not live in the Spirit lives a very different life from the person who is filled with the Spirit.

| Selfish Person | Spirit-Controlled Person |
|:-:|:-:|
| Wants what is sinful and displeasing to God | Wants what is spiritual and pleasing to God |
| Is controlled by sinful desires | Is controlled by the Spirit |
| Does not wisely use freedom and is a slave to sin | Is set free from sin and is called to freedom in Christ |
| Disobeys God’s will (plan) | Is obedient to God’s will |
| Is selfish | Is unselfish |
| Displays (shows) the fruit of sin | Displays the fruit of the Spirit |
| Does not see the need for forgiveness and is boastful | Sees the need for forgiveness and praises Jesus for what He has done |
 
People who are filled with God’s Spirit will love to obey God’s law. They will show a gentle spirit of love for others (read 2 Corinthians 5:14). Our values (things we believe in) will change when we receive new hearts. We no longer want to live our lives in our own strength. Instead, we want to yield to the Holy Spirit’s control (Galatians 3:3). 

We cannot change ourselves. This is because we possess no real power to do so. We are too sinful even to try. The power to change must come from God. 

This change is the work of a lifetime. It is a work that will have its up and downs. But it is a work that God promises to do in us if we surrender to Him. Philippians 1:6 says, “God began a good work in you. And I am sure that he will carry it on until it is completed. That will be on the day Christ Jesus returns” (NIrV).

`In what parts of your life do you see selfishness? And in what parts do you see the working of the Holy Spirit in you? What does your answer tell you about yourself and the choices you need to make?`
