---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   03/02/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Choosing to give our hearts to the control of God’s Holy Spirit will bring us God’s peace. We are free to choose to serve God or turn away from Him. 

Suppose, for example, we wish to be truly free in Christ. Then we need to turn from our old sinful ways. We must want the power of the Holy Spirit to fill us. To be truly free, we must be surrendered to the control of the Holy Spirit. Our freedom is found in being set free from the power of sin. This is because sin always makes us slaves. It always leads to death. So we must surrender to the Lord. We must allow the Holy Spirit to live within us. 

We are no longer under God’s judgment (read Romans 8:1). And we live lives where “our sinful nature no longer controls the way we live. The Holy Spirit now controls the way we live” (Romans 8:4, NIrV). Such freedom from sin comes through God’s Spirit. It is the only true freedom that we as sinners can know.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`Some people think that freedom means being able to do what you want, when you want, and how you want to do it. What is wrong with that idea from a Christian view of things? What is the Bible’s idea of true freedom? (Read Psalm 119:45; Luke 4:18; John 8:34–36; 2 Corinthians 3:17; and Galatians 5:1.)`

`It is important to put self aside. It is important to give our lives completely to God. Then the Holy Spirit can work powerfully through us. Imagine what would happen if you put self aside. Imagine what would happen if you fully opened your heart to the work of the Holy Spirit in you. What do you think God could do through you? How would that make you a blessing to others?`

`“The Christian’s life is not a small change from the old way of life. Instead, it is a complete change of heart and mind. There is a death to self and sin. Then God gives us a whole new life. This change can be made only by the power of the Holy Spirit.” —Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 172. Discuss in class what these words mean.`

`Compare a selfish life with a life that is Spirit filled (see Thursday’s chart). Discuss with your Sabbath School group what the greatest blessing of a Spirit-filled life could be for each of you.`
