---
title:  God’s Seal or the Beast’s Mark
date:   09/06/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints” (Rev. 15:3).

**It’s a Hands-On Process**

**Introduction**: Ezek. 20:19, 20

Have you ever held a counterfeit bill in your hand? I remember the day I received one in a stack of bills that I received as change. I’d made a purchase, handed the salesperson a genuine bill, and waited for my change.I knew I’d receive several bills and some coins. The clerk smiled as she placed the money in my hand. I counted it to make sure it was the correct change. As my fingers slid across the bills, I noticed one felt different from the others. Closer examination showed that the bill was fake. The clerk graciously exchanged it for another bill and told me she would report it to her manager.

I’m not a federal agent who has received specialized training in currency forgeries. That day, the fake bill was so different from the “true” thing that I could easily tell it apart with my fingers. Counterfeits are not always that easy to detect. The professionals who study currency and train to detect forgeries use a technique called “touch, tilt, look through, and look at.” They touch the bill to feel the type of paper. They tilt it to identify any type of special features such as holographic stripes. They look through it to view the watermark. They look at it to identify the features printed on the bill. When the world was created, a true form of worship was established. After sin, a counterfeit worship was created. Christ followers need to be trained to identify the real from the counterfeit. The steps can be much the same as the training that federal agents use. Physically reading your Bible, examining the principles of God and worship, identifying the true versus the false claims, and studying God’s character prepare us to know who God is and how to worship Him.

This week’s lesson examines God’s seal and the beast’s mark. Spend time learning about the sign of the covenant and what role Sabbath plays in that. Do you know the difference between a seal and a mark? There is an important difference in how and when they are created. Do you feel afraid when you think about God’s seal or the beast’s mark? Are you reluctant to discuss with others what these symbols mean and how they are applied in our lives? You aren’t the only person who struggles with this.

The good news is that there truly is good news in the seal of God and the mark of the beast. Don’t be reluctant to search it out. Touch, tilt, look through, and look at. You’ll find the real thing as you ask the Holy Spirit to guide you.

_Deena Bartel-Wagner, Chattanooga, Tennessee, USA_