---
title:  On Guard
date:   10/06/2018
---

**Logos**: Ezek. 20:12, 20

**Sign of the Covenant** (Gen. 17:9–11; Isa. 58:13)

The greater of any two people, families, or nations has always been the one to establish the rules of the relationship. In history, the rules established were often oppressive toward the weaker, such as when Babylon defeated Israel. Nebuchadnezzar established the rules—even of who could live and where. The people expected rules.

God’s rules, however, were not made merely to exert control. They are for the benefit of His people. When Abram became Abraham and received the promise becoming the father of many nations, God made circumcision the sign of Abraham’s acceptance. Hundreds of years later, Moses was given the Ten Commandments, including the fourth, the Sabbath, as a measure for the people to know how to remain close to God. In particular, they were reminded that the Sabbath was special to God and should be to them. In Ezekiel God reminded His people that He and they would know whether they were staying close to Him by watching their observance of the Sabbath. Isaiah correctly put it in terms of the heart instead of compulsion. It was always a matter of “whom do you worship?”

**The Creation Connection** (Rev. 14:7, 9; Genesis 1)

The third angel gives his strong warning concerning worship: “ ‘If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives his mark . . .’ ” (Rev. 14:9, NKJV). In verse 7, the first angel had put it in positive terms: “ ‘Worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water’ ” (NKJV). The presentation of only two options denotes that anyone who is not worshiping God as Creator is worshiping the beast. This also shows us that the principle of worshiping God goes back to Creation.

We have long been reminded that the first angel’s challenge to worship God as Creator brings us directly to the Sabbath. It uses language that is reminiscent of the fourth commandment: dealing with the Sabbath as well as speaking specifically of God as Creator. We know that Jesus was the active agent in the creation process (cf. John 1:1–3, 14).

To illustrate the importance of Sabbath in God’s eyes, consider what Ellen White called the “rank in the scale of being.”* It is a scale showing the relative importance of something according to the attention God shows it. This can be seen in the order in which it was made: light, water, atmosphere, the seas, dry land, vegetation, the sun and the moon, fish, birds, small animals, large animals, and humans. Sabbath was the final thing that was made during the seven days of Creation. It is the only part of Creation that He declared to be holy.

We do not worship the Sabbath day, but we worship the Creator God on the Sabbath. It is the day He calls us to draw near to Him so that a relationship can be renewed that was broken by our first parents. This hierarchy of creation places Jesus, the Creator, at the top. The Sabbath is under systematic attack, either to diminish our esteem for it or to simply make it too costly to honor.

This is not the only part of the scale of being that is under attack. We don’t worship humans either, but their role near the top of the scale has been under great attack. Society is seeking to put air, land and water, fish and birds, and other animals above humans in the new hierarchy of importance.

The effect of this is to turn the hierarchy upside down, putting God, Sabbath, and humans at the very bottom. In this way, there is no need to worship God at all because of His newly declared insignificance. Sabbath becomes no longer important if God Himself is reduced to be less than dirt. This is the work of the beast. To accept this will result in receiving his mark.

**Guard the Sabbath, Be Ready for Heaven** (Exod. 31:13, 14; 20:8–11)

Guarding the Sabbath safeguards all of creation. It is also taking advantage of the benefits Jesus wants to share with us on the Sabbath. If you are an architecture student who is trying to make your mark on the world of design and you have a chance to spend 24 hours with the world’s most acclaimed architect, would you find time in your schedule to do that? Apply this to whatever your life goals are to gain perspective on spending time with Jesus on the Sabbath.

We are trying to get to heaven. To do so, we need to have our characters renewed in the image of God. We have the opportunity every week to spend 24 hours with the only One in the universe who can build our characters and return them to being in the image of God. Jesus decides who will receive His seal. They will be those who have allowed Him, over time, to renew His character, His image, in them. Sabbath is a great time to get that done.

**React**

`1. Share whether you consider the Sabbath to be oppressive or delightful and why.`

`2. We need to take care of the earth, but how could the environmental and climate control movements be leading you to receive the mark of the beast?`

`3. Since you are near the top of the “rank in the scale of being,” what does God expect from you?`

<sup>* Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 313.</sup>

_Gary Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA_