---
title:  A Demarcation Line
date:   11/06/2018
---

**Testimony**: 1 Pet. 3:12

“As the disrespect for God’s law becomes more manifest, the line of demarcation between its observers and the world becomes more distinct. Love for the divine precepts increases with one class according as contempt for them increases with another class. . . .

“The day of God’s vengeance is just upon us. The seal of God will be placed upon the foreheads of those only who sigh and cry for the abominations done in the land. Those who link in sympathy with the world are eating and drinking with the drunken and will surely be destroyed with the workers of iniquity.”1

“I asked my accompanying angel the meaning what I heard, and what the four angels were about to do. He said to me that it was God that restrained the powers, and that He gave His angels charge over things on the earth; that the four angels had power from God to hold the four winds, and that they were about to let them go; but while their hands were loosening, and the four winds were about to blow, the merciful eye of Jesus gazed on the remnant that were not sealed, and He raised His hands to the Father, and pleaded with Him that He had spilled His blood for them. Then another angel was commissioned to fly swiftly to the four angels, and bid them hold, until the servants of God were sealed with the seal of the living God in their foreheads.” 2

“I also saw that many do not realize what they must be in order to live in the sight the Lord without a high priest in the sanctuary, through the time of trouble. Those who receive the seal of the living God, and are protected in the time of trouble, must reflect the image of Jesus fully.”3

“Now is the time to prepare. The seal of God will never be placed upon the forehead of an impure man or woman. It will never be placed upon the forehead of the ambitious, world-loving man or woman. It will never be placed upon the forehead of men or women of false tongues or deceitful hearts. All who receive the seal must be without spot before God,—candidates for heaven. Search the Scriptures for yourselves, that you may understand the fearful solemnity of the present hour.”4

1. Ellen G. White, Counsels for the Church, p. 333.
2. Ellen G. White, Christian Experience and Teachings of Ellen G. White, p. 102.
3. Ibid., p. 112.
4. Ibid., p. 191.

_Ashley M. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA_