---
title:  Original or Counterfeit?
date:   12/06/2018
---

**Evidence**: Exod. 20:4–6; Rev. 7:2; 14:9

Merchants who specialize in antiques are accustomed to looking for an artisan’s signature to separate the genuine from the counterfeit. Sometimes the signifying mark must be closely examined to establish true authenticity, to sift out fakes that try to reproduce the maker’s sign and claim an undeserved honor.

Revelation describes two identifying traits: the seal of God and the mark of the beast. From Strong’s Concordance we learn that the seal described in Revelation 7:2 is translated from the Greek sphragis (σφραγίς), which describes the impression made into wax or clay for the purpose of authentication. The mark of Revelation 14:9 is translated from charagma ( χάραγμα), a branding mark applied from an engraved image.

We can infer that the seal is produced during the creation of the signed artifact, while the sealing material is still soft and pliable. A mark, on the other hand, is the result of engraving, carving out a hardened or finished material to produce the desired image. There is another reference to the engraver’s art in Exodus, where God commands us not to make graven images for the purpose of worship.

The mark of the beast and the seal of God provide contrasting claims on worship. The seal is the result of the Creator setting aside a day of the week for worship and rest. The Sabbath was created while the week was still a work in progress and bears the imprint of the Creator. Much later, Satan carved out another day of the week, fashioning an alternative image of worship as a substitute for the original Sabbath seal. The mark of the beast is the result of engraving an image of false worship upon the weekly cycle. Not only does it attempt to substitute a counterfeit in place of the original, but the mark appears to accomplish its goal with a violation of the second commandment.

**React**

`1. Besides the Sabbath, in what other ways does Satan deface God’s work or character to create an alternate image of worship?`

`2. How can I recognize the true seal of God, and not be taken in by the false mark?`

_Steven J. Dovich, Andover, Massachusetts, USA_