---
title:  Keep Calm and Receive the Seals
date:   13/06/2018
---

**How-to**: Rev. 14:9–12

As nonstop coverage of world events becomes overwhelming, doesn’t it feel as though we are truly witnessing the worst of humanity? If we weren’t already dipping our toes into end-time events, it would be a shock.

Thinking of ourselves as last-day people makes us look at everything around us very differently. The mark of the beast and other end-time symbols may have seemed farfetched once. It was hard to imagine that we could buy and sell with a mark on our hand, but current technology shows us that it’s completely possible! But then, where does the 666 fit in? And are the 144,000 literal or symbolic? And which beast symbolizes what again?

Attempting to decipher these topics is a journey we all undertake our own ways, but that journey can be really confusing, and even terrifying. But amid the confusion, there is actually a calm promise to be found. In the same breath that the third angel speaks of wrath and torment, the message also points to the believers and the patience they’ve shown as their faith has endured.

Instead of focusing on the fear, we can put our trust in the seals we are given:

First of all, remember that the Sabbath is more than just a day of rest for God’s followers. Keeping this day sacred is also a sign of faith between the Lord and us and something that will set us apart from everyone else. By simply enjoying one of the Lord’s most special gifts to us, we are receiving His seal and showing that we are His (Exod. 31:13, 17).

We have the truth. As the path of the world continues its scary progress, recognizing what is true here on earth becomes more difficult. But the truth we have found in God’s Word and continue to believe will be our salvation. The day we put our trust in the Lord’s truth is the day we were marked with the Holy Spirit’s seal and promise (Eph. 1:13, 14).

The Lord knows His people. If nothing else, remember that even when we get distracted by the darker details of the end-time messages, God knows we are His. Our relationship with Him is a seal itself (2 Tim. 2:19).

**React**

`1. Do we need to decipher end-time symbols and warnings?`

`2. Why is keeping our day of rest holy important enough to be a sign between us and God?`

`3. Where else can we find messages of calm and peace for the last-day people?`

_Ashley Eisele, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_