---
title:  Alternative Facts
date:   14/06/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 14:7, 9

When I was growing up, my dad received a counterfeit twenty-dollar bill as change for a purchase he made while we were on vacation. Unfortunately, he didn’t realize it until later. We couldn’t go back to the store and ask for a different bill. Instead, he put it to good use as a sermon illustration demonstrating the difference between a real twenty-dollar bill and the counterfeit bill.

Today, it seems we are facing counterfeits on every side—evolution versus Creation; the teaching of the Rapture versus the teaching of the literal second coming of Jesus; fake news versus real news. The list goes on and on.

For a Christian there are counterfeits to be avoided even in Bible study. People mix their opinions with Bible truth on social media. Pastors preach sermons with subtle error mixed with truth. Where does one find truth in a world that seems to be filling with lies more rapidly each day?

We know the very beginning of the Bible is where the first lie was ever told. It was a twisting of words that Satan used and that Eve stumbled on. How different would life have been if the true words of God had been heeded?

There will come one final test in the future, when truth and falsehood will be pitted against each other. Revelation 14:7 commands that all should “ ‘worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea and the springs of water’ ” (NIV).

Revelation 14:9 warns of the false worship and its dismal end. “ ‘If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives its mark on their forehead or on their hand, they, too, will drink the wine of God’s fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. They will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb’ ” (NIV).

On that day, there will only be two truths: the truth of those who have received the seal of God and the truth of those who have received the mark of the beast. There will be no alternative facts. There will be no parsing of words or subtle counterfeits. God’s character will be vindicated throughout the entire universe. God’s crowning act of creation will be restored. Every knee will bow, including Satan’s, and the Lamb will reign in triumphant glory.

**React**

`1. Why do I want to receive the seal of God? How does my answer affect my daily life?`

`2. As I view world events, how do I sift through to find truth versus error? Do I use a biblical worldview to find truth?`

_Jordan Wagner, Chattanooga, Tennessee, USA_