---
title:  Hands-On Trust
date:   15/06/2018
---

**Exploration**: Deut. 7:9

**Conclude**

Satan’s lie has always been that God can’t be trusted. He doesn’t want humans to spend time in true worship of God. In an attempt to divert attention, Satan created a false worship that will only end in disaster. Although our redemption was made secure on the cross with Christ’s death, we show our allegiance to Him through our worship of God the Father. A daily hands-on experience of Bible study, meditation on His Word, and prayer will lead us to truth. With truth comes God’s seal and eternal life.

**Consider**

- Role-playing God and Satan having a conversation about the seal of God versus the mark of the beast.
- Composing a song with the theme of those who receive the seal of God. Incorporate their emotions into the words as they express their worship for God.
- Painting a mural of the world at the time of the close of judgment. Portray both those who receive the seal and those who receive the mark.
- Collecting items during a hike that demonstrate principles of the true worship of God.
- Writing a story for young children that explains the seal of God and the mark of the beast in language they can understand.
- Meditating on how you will incorporate true worship, using various methods, into your daily life.
- Interviewing church members on their interpretation of the seal versus the mark. How do their thoughts line up with this week’s lesson?

**Connect**

1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, chapter 24, “The Seal of God”; The Story of Redemption, chapter 59, “The Close of Probation”; The Great Controversy, chapter 38, “The Final Warning”; Prophets and Kings, chapter 47, “Joshua and the Angel”; Early Writings, pp. 64–67, “Mark of the Beast.”
2. Mark Finley, End-Time Hope (Pacific Press, 2012).

_Ashley N. Wagner, Chattanooga, Tennessee_