---
title:  The Habits of a Good Manager
date:   17/03/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 5:15–17; Colossians 3:23; Luke 12:35–48; James 4:14; Acts 3:21. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “How can a young man keep his way pure [free from sin]? By living byYourWord [the Bible]. I have looked for You with all my heart. Do not let me turn from Your Law. Your Word [I have] hid[den] in my heart, that I may not sin against You” (Psalm 119:9–11, NLV). 

Your habits show the purpose of your life. They show where your life is going, too. Wise managers of God’s gifts will learn and practice good habits. Then they will be loyal servants. Daniel’s life shows what good habits are. Daniel made a habit of praying every day (Daniel 6:10). Paul’s habit was to be in a place of worship on the Sabbath (Acts 17:1, 2). Paul also writes, “Do not be fooled: ‘Bad friends will ruin good habits’ ” (1 Corinthians 15:33, ICB). So, we should practice good habits. Good habits should take the place of bad ones. “Our habits make us who we are in this life and in the next life in heaven. So, we must make good habits now. We must be loyal in doing every duty God gives us.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 4, page 452, adapted. 

Making good habits is the fastest way to get the reward you want. A habit is a choice you make that becomes part of you. You no longer need to think about a habit. You just do it. A habit can be very good or very bad. This week we look at powerful habits that will help a wise manager be a success in doing God’s work.