---
title:  'Good habit: putting God first'
date:   18/03/2018
---

We all have our own ways of doing things. We call these habits. The question is: What kind are they? Good habits or bad ones? For a Christian, seeking God first every day is the most important habit of all. 

“Every morning give yourself to God. Give your soul, body, and spirit to serve Him. Practice habits that show your deep love for God. Trust more and more in your Savior.” —Ellen G. White, Mind, Character [Who someone is], and Personality, volume 1, page 15, adapted. Give yourself to God each morning. It is a good habit. When we give ourselves to God each morning, we will be able to enter through the very small door “ ‘that leads to life that lasts forever’ ” (Matthew 7:14, NLV). 

God said, “ ‘Do not put any other gods in place of me’ ” (Exodus 20:3, NIrV). Jesus said to “ ‘put God’s kingdom first. Do what he wants you to do’ ” (Matthew 6:33, NIrV). We also have been told: “ ‘When you look for me with all your heart, you will find me’ ” (Jeremiah 29:13, NIrV). 

`Read Matthew 22:37,38;Acts 17:28;Ephesians 5:15–17; and Colossians 3:23. How do these verses help us put God first in our lives?` 

Jesus is the best example of how to put God first. Jesus put His Father in heaven before everything. Luke tells us that Jesus put His Father first during His visit to Jerusalem as a Child. Jesus’ mother went looking for Him and found Him in the temple. He said to her, “ ‘Why did you have to look for me? You should have known that I must be where my Father’s work is!’ ” (Luke 2:49, ICB). 

Jesus wanted to be near His Father His whole life. Jesus’ prayer life shows us that Jesus wanted to feel very close to His Father. Jesus made it a habit to stay fully connected to His Father. How did He do it? Jesus prayed. Then evil powers could not separate Jesus from His Father. 

We can do what Jesus did. We can choose to love God with all our hearts, minds, and souls (Matthew 23:37). We can pray, study the Bible, and try to be the same as Jesus in everything we do. These things will help us make a habit of putting God first in our lives. 

`Have you put God first in your life? How do you know?`