---
title:  'Good habit: look for the coming of Jesus'
date:   19/03/2018
---

`Read the picture story in Luke 12:35–48. What does this picture story teach us about how we must think and feel about the Second Coming of Jesus? Why must the way we live always show that we believe the Second Coming is real?` 

We should be good managers of God’s gifts to us because Jesus is coming back. People will know who the bad managers are because of their evil behavior. But loyal managers will do everything God asks. In fact, good managers will work as if Jesus Himself stood at their sides. Every day they work hard to show how loyal they are to God. “But we are citizens of heaven. And we can hardly [not easy to do] wait for a Savior from there. He is the Lord Jesus Christ” (Philippians 3:20, NIrV). 

Abraham looked for a city that lasts forever (Hebrews 11:10). Paul looked for Jesus to come back (Hebrews 10:25). These men were always thinking about, hoping, and planning to meet Jesus at any minute. We also must make a habit of always looking forward to meeting Jesus (Titus 2:13).At the same time, we must avoid false ideas about what will happen at the end of time.God’s promise of the Second Coming points us to the right path for our lives. This path leads us to heaven. God’s promise of the Second Coming gives us a deeper understanding of what is happening on earth right now. God’s promise of the Second Coming also helps us to remember what is important in life. So, we must make a habit of looking for Jesus to come back. It gives us a reason for living and makes us better managers. 

The Cross made a way for us to meet Jesus at the Second Coming. The Bible tells us to be on the lookout for special things that will happen before Jesus comes back. These things show us that the coming of Jesus is near. He will come in the glory of the Father and with angels (Mark 8:38). Then everything will be made new. “The things that can be seen will come to an end. But the things that cannot be seen will last forever” (2 Corinthians 4:18, NLV). 

Death is very real and happens all the time around us. Death helps us remember that our time on earth is short. But God’s promise of the Second Coming shows us that death will not last forever. The truth of the Second Coming should help change our lives. So, let us make a habit of looking for Jesus’ Second Coming.