---
title:  'Good habit: use time wisely'
date:   20/03/2018
---

**“ ‘Our days on this earth are like [the same as] a shadow that disappears’ ” (Job 8:9, NIrV)** 

You can stop a clock. But you cannot stop time. Time does not wait for anyone.Time always moves forward.What if we stood without moving and did nothing? What would happen to time? Time would just keep running. 

`Read James 4:14; Psalm 90:10, 12; Psalm 39:4, 5; and Ecclesiastes 3:6–8. What is the basic message of these verses? How do they help us understand that our time on earth is such a precious gift?` 

Our time on earth is limited because we must die. Our time to live will run out if Jesus does not come back first. We cannot get more time. So, Christians must be good managers of time. We should make a habit of using our time wisely. We must use our time to do the things that the Bible says are important. We cannot get time back after it is gone. We can lose the money we invest and later get it back. We might even get more money back than what we lost. But time is not the same. A minute lost is a minute lost forever. We cannot get back even one second from our past. We could more easily put a broken egg back in its shell. So, time is one of our most precious gifts from God. It is very important that we make a good habit of using wisely every minute of the time that God gives us. 

“Our time belongs to God. Every moment is His. We have a duty to improve it.Then God will receive praise and honor. God has given us many talents. But God expects us to do more with our gift of time than with any other gift He gives us. We will need to give Him reasons for why we used our time the way we did. 

“We cannot understand fully how valuable time is. Jesus felt every minute was precious. We should feel every minute is precious too. Life is too short to waste on things that are not important. We have only a little time on this earth to prepare for heaven. So, we have no time to waste. We have no time to give to selfish pleasure. We have no time to sin.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s [Jesus’] Object Lessons, page 342, adapted. 

`What does Paul teach us in Ephesians 5:15, 16?` 