---
title:  'Good habit: taking care of the body, mind, and soul'
date:   21/03/2018
---

In the beginning, God made humans with minds, bodies, and souls that were healthy and perfect. Then sin ruined everything. The Good News about Jesus also includes the truth that God is working right now to make us new again. 

`Read Acts 3:21 and Revelation 21:1–5. What hope do we find in these verses? How should we live our lives while we wait for God to make all things new again?` 

Jesus never stopped working to improve the hearts, minds, and bodies of people around Him. He healed many people. Jesus’ work shows us God’s big plan to make everything new again at the end of time. Jesus’ miracles show us how God wants us to be very healthy until He comes. So, wise managers will make a habit of improving their minds, bodies, and souls. They will live healthy lives. Let us now look at the reasons for making healthy habits. 

First, the mind will grow stronger the more we use it. Make it a habit to “always think about what is true. Think about what is noble [good], right and pure [free from sin]. Think about what is lovely and worthy of respect” (Philippians 4:8, NIrV). These thoughts bring peace (Isaiah 26:3). “A peaceful heart gives life to the body”(Proverbs 14:30, NIrV).Think good thoughts. Good thoughts allow the mind to work in peace and good health. 

Second, good health habits show we care about ourselves. Two good health habits are healthy eating and exercise. Exercise lowers blood pressure. Exercise also improves our mood. In fact, exercise will make you look and feel younger more than anything you could buy. 

Third, good habits will give life to our souls. So, lift up your soul to God (Psalm 86:4, 5). Wait on Him to give you hope (Psalm 62:5). You will succeed at what you do when you “[follow] the truth” (3 John 3, NLV). Then your soul will “be without blame when our Lord Jesus Christ comes again” (1 Thessalonians 5:23, NLV). 

`What are some of your habits now? How could you improve these habits while you wait for Jesus to make all things new again?`