---
title:  'Good habit: self-control'
date:   22/03/2018
---

Self-control is one of the most important habits a good manager can have.“God did not give us a spirit that makes us afraid. He gave us a spirit of power and love and self-control” (2 Timothy 1:7, ICB). The Greek word for self-control is sophronismos. This word is found in the Bible only one time. It is found in 2 Timothy 1:7. This word means “doing what must be done with a strong and healthy mind that will not turn away from following God’s rules.” Self-control helps us “know the difference between good and evil” (Hebrews 5:14, ICB). Self-control also helps us understand the best way to handle problems. Self-control helps us stay calm. Just look at Daniel. Daniel was thrown to lions. But he did not let his fear stop him from doing what was right. Samson was very different from Daniel. Samson did anything he wanted. Samson did not show much self-control or good sense. But Joseph did what was right in Potiphar’s house. Solomon was very different from Joseph. He worshiped other gods (1 Kings 11:4, 5). 

`Read 1 Corinthians 9:24–27. What does Paul say in these verses about self-control? What does self-control have to do with sharing the Good News? Why must those who share the Good News show self-control in their lives?` 

“People who do not know God do anything they want. False ideas and false stories are everywhere. Satan continues to invent more and more traps to destroy souls. Those people who want to become holy must obey God. They must learn self-control. The desires of the body must be brought under the control of the higher powers of the mind. Self-control is important. It allows us to understand and follow the holy truths of the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 101, adapted. 

God chose you to “be holy in all that you do” (1 Peter 1:15, NIrV). He commands us to “train [ourselves] to be godly [holy]” (1 Timothy 4:7, NIrV). Good managers must train themselves to show self-control in everything they do. In the same way, good athletes or musicians train hard to become good at what they do. Self-control grows stronger with practice. God’s power will help us succeed. 

`How can God’s power help us become better managers?`