---
title:  Additional thought
date:   23/03/2018
---

Enoch and Noah made it a habit to walk with God. They were loyal to God in a time when few people were loyal (Genesis 5:24; Genesis 6:9). Instead, the earth was filled with people who had no self-control. These people were cruel. They loved riches and the things on this earth more than God. But Enoch and Noah understood God’s loving-favor.They accepted God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. So, Enoch and Noah were good managers of all God gave them to take care of. 

In all times of the past, there have been men and women who were loyal to God. They walked with God just as Enoch and Noah did and Daniel and his friends did. They “knew that the only way they could share the truth was to have clear minds and holy lives. They stood as witnesses of true religion among false religions. God Himself taught Daniel and his friends. He was their Teacher. Daniel and his friends always prayed, studied, and talked with the One [God] who cannot be seen. These things helped them to walk with God as Enoch did.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [Special Messengers] and Kings, page 486, adapted. 

Walking with God is a word picture that explains the actions of a wise manager. Walking with God means living with God every day of our lives. A wise manager will make a habit of walking with God on this evil earth. A daily connection with God protects us from the power of sin. 

How do we become loyal managers? We must begin by agreeing with God and walking with Him (Amos 3:3). The actions of a loyal manager include every part of our lives. So, we must live our lives in Jesus (Colossians 2:6). We must get new lives from Him (Romans 6:4). We must live our lives with love (Ephesians 5:2). We must be wise (Colossians 4:5). We must live in the light of God’s truth (Psalm 86:11; 1 John 1:7). We must have honor (Proverbs 19:1).We must obey God’s law (Exodus 16:4). We must do good works (Ephesians 2:10). We always must choose to do what is right (Proverbs 4:26). 

**Discussion questions** 

`1. Read Matthew 11:29;Ephesians 4:2; and Philippians 2:3.Why do these verses say it is wrong to be proud?` 

`2. How can we help people who are fighting bad habits?` 

`3. What are other habits good managers should have? (Read Titus 2:7 and Matthew 5:8 for answers.)` 