---
title:  Jesus in the Writings of Peter
date:   13/05/2017
---

### Jesus in the Writings of Peter

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Pet. 1:18, 19; Col. 1:13, 14; Isa. 53:1–12; John 11:25; Ps. 18:50; 2 Pet. 1:1.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Who Himself bore our sins in His own body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness—by whose stripes you were healed” (1 Peter 2:24, NKJV). 

A s we have studied 1 Peter, it should be clear by now that regardless of the context, and whatever the specific issues he’s addressing, Peter’s focus was on Jesus. Jesus permeates all that he writes; He’s the golden thread woven through the letter. 

From the first line, where Peter says that he is an “apostle” (“one sent”) of Jesus Christ, until the last, when he writes, “Peace to you all who are in Christ Jesus” (1 Pet. 5:14, NKJV), Jesus is his key theme. And in this epistle he talks about Jesus’ dying as our sacrifice. He talks about the great suffering that Jesus went through and uses Jesus’ example in that suffering as a model for us. He talks about the resurrection of Jesus and what it means to us. In addition, he talks about Jesus not only as the Messiah, the Christos, the “anointed one,” but about Jesus as the Divine Messiah. That is, we see in 1 Peter more evidence of the divine nature of Jesus. He was God Himself, who came in human flesh and who lived and died so that we can have the hope and promise of eternal life.

This week we will go back through 1 Peter and look more closely at what it reveals about Jesus.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 20._