---
title:  The Passion of Christ
date:   15/05/2017
---

### The Passion of Christ

Christians often talk about “the passion of Christ.” The word passion comes from a Greek verb that means “to suffer,” and the phrase the passion of Christ usually refers to what Jesus suffered in the final period of His life, beginning with the triumphal entry into Jerusalem. Peter, too, dwells on the theme of Christ’s suffering in those last days.

`Read 1 Peter 2:21–25 and Isaiah 53:1–12. What do they tell us about what Jesus suffered on our behalf?` 

There is particular significance to the suffering of Jesus. He bore “our sins in His own body on the tree [a reference to the cross; compare with Acts 5:30], that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness” (1 Pet. 2:24, NKJV). Sin brings death (Rom. 5:12). As sinners, we deserve to die. Yet, the perfect Jesus—who had no guile on His lips (1 Pet. 2:22)—died in our place. In that exchange, we have the plan of salvation. 

`Read Isaiah 53:1–12 again. What do the texts say that Jesus suffered as He worked out the plan of salvation in our behalf? What does this tell us about the character of God?`

“Satan with his fierce temptations wrung the heart of Jesus. The Saviour could not see through the portals of the tomb. Hope did not present to Him His coming forth from the grave a conqueror, or tell Him of the Father’s acceptance of the sacrifice. He feared that sin was so offensive to God that Their separation was to be eternal. Christ felt the anguish which the sinner will feel when mercy shall no longer plead for the guilty race. It was the sense of sin, bringing the Father’s wrath upon Him as man’s substitute, that made the cup He drank so bitter, and broke the heart of the Son of God.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 753. 

`What should our response be to what Christ has endured for us? How are we to follow His example, as 1 Peter 2:21 says?`