---
title:  Further Thought
date:   19/05/2017
---

#### Further Thought

“It seems logical to begin with ‘Messiah,’ since the 

Christian church owes its name to the Greek equivalent Christos, the ‘Anointed One.’ The Hebrew word relates to the deliverer figure whom the Jews awaited and who would be God’s agent in the inauguration of a new age for God’s people. Both the Hebrew and the Greek terms are derived from roots meaning ‘to anoint.’ Evidently, by calling Him ‘Christ,’ the New Testament writers regarded Jesus as specially set aside for a particular task.

“The title Christos occurs more than 500 times in the NT. Although there was more than one concept of Messiahship among Jesus’ contemporaries, it is generally recognized that by the first century Jews had come to look on the Messiah as someone in a special relationship with God. He would usher in the end of the age, when the kingdom of God would be established. He was the one through whom God would break through into history for the deliverance of His people. Jesus accepted the title ‘Messiah,’ but did not encourage its use; for the term carried political overtones that made its use difficult. Though reluctant to avail Himself of it in public to describe His mission, Jesus rebuked neither Peter (Matt. 16:16, 17) nor the Samaritan woman (John 4:25, 26) for using it. He knew Himself to be the Messiah, as seen in Mark’s report of Jesus’ words about giving one of His disciples a cup of water ‘because you bear the name of Christ’ (Mark 9:41).”—The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 12, p. 165.

#### Discussion Questions:

`Read Isaiah 53:1–12. According to this passage, what has Jesus done for us? Write down the specifics of what He has done on our behalf. In what ways can we clearly see in these verses the idea of Jesus as our Substitute? Why do we need Him as our Substitute?`

`Throughout history, some have used the biblical promise of an afterlife to help keep people oppressed. Well, yes, your life is hard here and now, but just focus on what God has promised for us when Jesus returns. Because this truth taught in the Word of God has been abused, many reject the Christian notion of an afterlife; instead, they see it merely as a ploy by some people to oppress others. How would you respond to that charge?`

`In class, go over your answer to Thursday’s question about Christ’s divinity and what it tells us about the character of God. Why is His divinity and what it does reveal about God such good news?`
