---
title:  Compassion Fatigue
date:  16/09/2019
---

Resisting the possibility of letting our good intentions be overwhelmed by “all the trouble in the world,” many of us would like to do more to make a difference in the lives of the suffering. There are a number of attitudes and actions that can help us make positive responses to those in need.

Compassion: As we have seen, recognizing and empathizing with the pain of those who are hurting are first steps toward action. We need to grow and maintain our sensitivity to the suffering. Today, people talk about “compassion fatigue,” the idea that we are so exposed to sorrow and tragedy that many of us become weary of the many causes that call for our emotional energy and financial support. Jesus was keenly aware of the evil and pain around Him; yet, He remained compassionate. So must we.

Education: Because many situations of injustice and poverty are complicated, listening and learning what we can about these situations is important. There have been many examples in which wellintentioned people have caused damage to other people’s lives by trying to help. While this is not an excuse for inaction, we should seek to get involved in ways that are informed and thoughtful.

Prayer: When we see a problem, our first thought is to take “practical” action. But the Bible reminds us that prayer is practical. We can make a difference in the lives of the poor and oppressed by our prayers for them and for those who have power over them (see 1 Tim. 2:1, 2), as well as seeking God’s guidance for how we can best respond further in offering help (see Prov. 2:7, 8).

Expectations: Another important element in working to alleviate suffering is to have proper expectations, given the complexity of social, political, and personal circumstances. Our hope should be to give people choices and opportunities that they might not have had otherwise. Sometimes what people do with these opportunities will disappoint us, but we must respect those choices. In whatever way we might try to work in behalf of the suffering, our guiding principle must be to “ ‘do to others what you would have them do to you’ ” (Matt. 7:12, NIV).

`Read James 1:5–8. What role should prayer play in Christian action? What does James 2:15, 16 suggest about how we can contribute to answering our prayers for others?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Let us then not be weary in well-doing. Let us yield our hearts entirely to the teachings of the word. . . . According to our own faith in the message will be our earnestness and our power in promoting the knowledge of Jesus Christ. We are to become “labourers together with God,” always “abounding in the work of the Lord.”  

Every day of our lives we face new obligations. The termination of one duty is the beginning of the next. Our lives are to be spent in solemn service for the Master. We are the Lord’s servants. The members of Christ’s church are to be examples of life-service, of complete obedience to our great Example. Every day our work will be appointed unto us according to our several ability. In prayerful, watchful service, we shall perfect characters after the divine similitude, characters with which God will be pleased, and that will fit us for an entrance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 265.  

God’s servants are to make use of every resource for enlarging His kingdom. The apostle Paul declares that it is “good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour; who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth,” that “supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men.” 1 Timothy 2:3, 4, 1. . . . Every believer is pledged to unite with his brethren in giving the invitation, “Come; for all things are now ready.” Luke 14:17. Each is to encourage the others in doing wholehearted work. Earnest invitations will be given by a living church. Thirsty souls will be led to the water of life.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 7, pp. 14, 15.

Our spiritual strength and blessing will be proportionate to the labor of love and good works which we perform. The injunction of the apostle is, “Bear ye one another’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ” (Galatians 6:2). Keeping the commandments of God requires of us good works, self-denial, self-sacrifice, and devotion for the good of others, not that our good works alone can save us, but that we surely cannot be saved without good works. After we have done all that we are capable of doing we are then to say, We have done no more than our duty, and at best are unprofitable servants, unworthy of the smallest favor from God. Christ must be our righteousness. . . . 

All around us there are those who have soul hunger and who long for love expressed in words and deeds. Friendly sympathy and real feelings of tender interest for others would bring to our souls blessings that we have never yet experienced, and would bring us into close relation to our Redeemer, whose advent to the world was for the purpose of doing good, and whose life we are to copy. What are we doing for Christ?—_That I May Know Him_, p. 334.