---
title:  Peacemaking
date:  18/09/2019
---

`Read Matthew 5:9. In the kind of world we live in, how do we do what Jesus says here? Ultimately, how successful can we be? See Mark 13:7.`

Violent conflict is a significant cause of suffering. Included in the costs of war are the direct victims and shattered lives, the attention and resources devoted to military machinery that would be better diverted to alleviating other human needs and the ongoing suffering of war survivors and veterans, even among the “victors.” Then there are the many smaller conflicts that scar countless lives in families and communities. As such, a passion for justice cannot ignore the mandate to peacemaking.

At the heart of the gospel of Jesus is God’s gracious and grand act of peacemaking, reconciling sinful human beings to their Creator (see 2 Cor. 5:18–21). And the reconciliation we receive becomes the pattern for us to be “ambassadors” for this reconciliation for others, as well.

`Read Isaiah 52:7. How do we live out this text too?`

The gospel of peace also becomes the motivation, pattern, and resource for working for peace in our violent world: “The heart that is in harmony with God is a partaker of the peace of heaven and will diffuse its blessed influence on all around. The spirit of peace will rest like dew upon hearts weary and troubled with worldly strife.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 28.

In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, “ ‘Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God’ ” (Matt. 5:9, NIV). Taking this further, not only did He affirm the commandment against killing, He said that we should not be angry or hold a grudge (see Matt. 5:21–26) and that we should love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us (see Matt. 5:43–48), meaning that we should take active steps to seek their good. There are many inspiring stories of people who have devoted their lives to peacemaking in the world’s trouble spots, bringing glimpses of reconciliation and healing, and often alleviating much of the injustice and suffering these conflicts have brought.

`What are ways that your church, at its local level, could act in the role of peacemaker?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Sin has destroyed our peace. While self is unsubdued we can find no rest. The masterful passions of the heart no human power can control. We are as helpless here as were the disciples to control the raging storm. But He who spoke peace to the billows of Galilee has spoken the word of peace for every soul. However fierce the tempest, those who turn to Jesus with the cry, “Lord, save us,” will find deliverance. His grace, which reconciles the soul to God, quiets the strife of human passion, and in His love the heart is at rest. . . .  

Whoever consents to renounce sin and open his heart to the love of Christ, becomes a partaker of this heavenly peace. There is no other ground of peace than this. The grace of Christ, received into the heart, subdues enmity; it allays strife and fills the soul with love. He who is at peace with God and his fellow men cannot be made miserable. Envy will not be in his heart; evil surmisings will find no room there; hatred cannot exist. The heart that is in harmony with God is a partaker of the peace of heaven and will diffuse its blessed influence on all around. The spirit of peace will rest like dew upon hearts weary and troubled with worldly strife.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 35.

God pours His blessings upon all. “He maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.” He is “kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.” Luke 6:35. He bids us to be like Him. “Bless them that curse you,” said Jesus; “do good to them that hate you, . . . that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven.” These are the principles of the law, and they are the wellsprings of life.—_The Desire of Ages,_ p. 311.

The glorious gospel, God’s message of redeeming love, must be brought to the people, and that love is to be revealed in the hearts of the laborers. The theme of saving grace is an antidote for a harsh spirit. The love of Christ in the heart will be expressed in earnest work for the salvation of sinners. . . . 

Let the gospel be presented as the word of God for life and salvation. . . . The gospel will be commended by the revelation of a spirit that works by love. “How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace” (Isaiah 52:7).—_This Day With God_, p. 297.