---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/09/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “A Higher Experience,” pp. 503–516, in The Ministry of Healing; “Duty to the Unfortunate” and “Man’s Duty to His Fellow Men,” pp. 511–526, in Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3; “Doing for Christ,” pp. 24–37, in Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2.

“Search heaven and earth, and there is no truth revealed more powerful than that which is made manifest in works of mercy to those who need our sympathy and aid. This is the truth as it is in Jesus. When those who profess the name of Christ shall practice the principles of the golden rule, the same power will attend the gospel as in apostolic times.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 137. “Supreme love for God and unselfish love for one another—this is the best gift that our heavenly Father can bestow. This love is not an impulse, but a divine principle, a permanent power. The unconsecrated heart cannot originate or produce it. Only in the heart where Jesus reigns is it found. . . . This love, cherished in the soul, sweetens the life and sheds a refining influence on all around.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 551.

**Discussion Questions:**

`As we have seen in this week’s study, the gospel continues to be the template and motivation for acting on behalf of others as Jesus acted on our behalf. How has this expanded your understanding and appreciation of the good news of what God has done for us and how He shows His love for us?`

`Raising our voices for the voiceless, engaging in peacemaking, and similar activities may draw us into public and political arenas. However, the Seventh-day Adventist Church has been a champion of the separation of church and state. What is the difference between inappropriate political involvement and speaking up and working to make peace in public ways?`

`What one step or action discussed in this week’s study would you like to take in your life and community? How can you make it happen?`

`What issue of evil and oppression have you decided to pray for in your community or in the wider world?`

Summary: Becoming a follower of Jesus will change our lives in many ways, including producing in us a passion to join in with God’s active concern for the poor and downtrodden. Never an easy task and rarely popular, this will change our priorities and motivate us to take active steps to heal the hurt in the world around us.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Ministry of Healing_, “A Higher Experience,” pp. 503–516. 