---
title:  "People From Every Country: Part 1"
date:   19/04/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Genesis 10:1–12; Genesis 12:1–9; 1 Samuel 8:4–18; Matthew 20:25–28; Isaiah 42:6.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “And He was given power and shining-greatness [glory and honor], and was made King, so that all the people of every nation [country] and language would serve Him. His rule [kingdom] lasts [continues] forever. It [His kingdom] will never pass away. And His nation will never be destroyed” (Daniel 7:14, NLV).

The book of Revelation shows us how God will solve the problem of sin and evil. In the last few chapters of Revelation, God allows the saved to eat from the tree of life. God removes the curse. Then we can live with God and see Him face-to-face. The book of Revelation is, in some ways, the book of Genesis in reverse. Genesis is important because it helps us understand how the problems on earth started in the first place. The book of Revelation shows us how God gives us back the things that we lost in Eden.

One of the most important topics in the books of Daniel and Revelation is human government. Daniel and Revelation show how humans try to control a planet that belongs to God. God will control the earth again when sin and evil end. But thousands of years must pass, and many things must happen first. Human government is not perfect. The best human government fails to do all that it promises to do. So much of the sad history of humans is stories about the terrible things that their leaders did. Sad to say, things will get worse until God’s kingdom starts (Daniel 7:27). His kingdom will never be destroyed.