---
title:  Nimrod and Nineveh
date:   20/04/2025
---

God made the Garden of Eden for the human family. Eden was the perfect home for us. Then Adam and Eve sinned. God had no choice. He had to separate humans from both the Garden of Eden and the tree of life, at least for now.

Outside the Garden, people worked hard to live. Life became difficult. We suffered, felt pain, and worked hard to make a living (Genesis 3:16–19). Our first parents believed that the true King (Jesus) would open the gates of Eden to them again. Adam and his sons brought offerings to the gates of Eden to worship. Their offerings showed that they believed in God’s plan to save them from sin.

“The Garden of Eden stayed on the earth long after God commanded Adam and Eve to leave it. . . . Adam and his sons came to the Garden of Eden to worship God. They again promised to obey the law they broke. When they broke this law, God commanded them to leave Eden. After a while, sin filled the whole earth. God sent a Flood to destroy the earth. Before the Flood, God removed from the earth the Garden that He planted. But some day there will be ‘a new heaven and a new earth’ (Revelation 21:1 [ERV]). Then God will put Eden back on the earth again. He will make it more beautiful than before when He first planted it.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 62, adapted.

But some people didn’t trust in God’s promise to bring them back to Eden or to save them. They tried to solve problems their own way. They hoped for an easier life. They started cities. Maybe they thought their cities could give them the perfect life they lost in Eden.

`Read Genesis 10:1–12. In these verses, the Bible talks about many important cities, including Nineveh and Babylon. We read a lot more about these cities in the rest of the Bible. What do you remember reading in the Bible about these cities? How does that help you understand what Genesis 10:1–12 is saying about these cities.`

Some people think Nimrod is a hero. The Bible says that Nimrod “was a mighty hunter in the Lord’s eyes” (Genesis 10:9, NIrV). These words aren’t praise. Nimrod stands against the Lord, and not for Him. Nimrod fights against God and causes other people to join his fight. This fight won’t end until God destroys sin and evil forever.