---
title:  Abraham
date:   21/04/2025
---

In Genesis 10, we read about the start of the different people groups on the earth. Genesis 10 also tells us that humans separated into different groups. These groups went to different lands, languages, and families (Genesis 10:5; also read Revelation 14:6).

Then the Bible talks about how God commands Abraham to leave one of those people groups. God has a special plan for Abraham’s life. But Abraham must leave the country he lives in and its people first. He must become different from them so that God’s plan for his life can happen.

`Read Genesis 12:1–9. Why did God tell Abram (later, God changed his name to Abraham) to leave the country where he was born?`

God wanted to use Abraham to start a people group, Israel, that would be different from all other human kingdoms. Israel didn’t have a human king. That’s because God Himself was their King. God wanted Israel to be an example to everyone on earth. He wanted Israel to show what happens when humans follow God. God wanted Israel to be a blessing to all the families on the earth (Genesis 12:3). God gave Israel wonderful Bible truth and blessings that no one on the earth saw since before the Flood.

`What did the Lord tell Israel in Deuteronomy 4:5–9?`

Israel wasn’t just one person. Israel was a big people group. God wanted them to work together with Him to show everyone on earth His love and mercy. God gave Israel many things to show other people that they were special to Him. God gave Israel special laws. But Israel needed to obey these laws. Their obedience would cause the people from other countries to say, “ ‘This great [mighty] nation of Israel is wise and understanding’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:6, ICB). Yes, God gave Israel wonderful Bible truths. But Israel didn’t live these truths or obey them. So, God couldn’t bless them as much as He wanted to. God wanted to bless them with life. But Israel chose sin and death.

`We must obey Bible truth, and not just believe it. Why is this rule important for us today, as Adventists?`