---
title:  Getting What We Ask For
date:   22/04/2025
---

In the beginning, Israel didn’t have a king the same as other countries did. But after a while, Israel’s faith grew weak. Then the Israelites wanted the same things that other countries had.

`Why do you think the Israelite leaders wanted a king? Read 1 Samuel 8:4–18 for the answer. In what ways do we also want things that God doesn’t want us to have?`

Israel’s wish for a king showed that they refused God as their Leader. When Israel asked for a king, they suffered the same things that the other countries around them suffered. They were forced to fight the king’s wars. The king could take their property and tax them. Israel soon learned that a king put himself first, ahead of his own people. But God put His people first.

God gave His people what they asked for: a human king. Soon, Israel understood they made a mistake. Now they were stuck with their decision forever. The Bible says, “When that time comes, you will cry out for help because of the king you have chosen. But the Lord won’t answer you at that time” (1 Samuel 8:18, NIrV).

God knew His people were weak. He knew that they would want a human king. They asked for one, and so much of Bible history is about what happened because of their poor choice. Read Deuteronomy 17:14–20. Notice that God doesn’t say, “I will give them a king.” God says that His people decided that they wanted one. In spite of their choice, God shows His people mercy. He gives them laws to protect them from some of the evils of human government. As the history of Israel shows us, many of the kings and leaders paid no attention to these laws.

Look at the history of Israel after they decided they wanted a king. You will see just how bad things went for them under these kings. Some kings were better than other kings. But even the “good” kings did bad things (think of King David and his sin against Bathsheba). Often Israel lived under the control of one king after another who “did what the Lord said was wrong” (1 Kings 11:6, ERV; also read 1 Kings 15:26; 1 Kings 16:30; 2 Kings 3:2, and so on).

Back then, or today, all human governments show the same thing: their leaders are sinners who lead other sinners. What can possibly go wrong?!