---
title:  Kings of the Non-Jewish People
date:   23/04/2025
---

God’s relationship with Israel gives us important information that helps us better understand His relationship with the New Testament church. In many ways, the history of Israel’s mistakes showed us what would happen in the church during New Testament times. Christians are no better than the Jews during Old Testament times. Many Christians are as weak as the Jews were and do some of the very same sins.

`What mistake did Jesus warn His followers not to make when they started the Christian church? Read Matthew 20:25–28 for the answer.`

Israel asked for a human king. Their wish ruined their happiness and hurt their chances for success. Each king was worse than the one before him. Finally, God allowed the Babylonians to carry His people away from their land. This punishment helped Israel come back to God and serve Him.

The same thing happened in the Christian church. When Constantine became the leader of Rome, he became a Christian. Christians everywhere were so happy. Now Rome would stop hurting them for their faith! For sure, that was a blessing. But then church leaders started to wonder how Constantine could use his power to make them a success.

Many big fights between Christians happened in the a.d. 300s. When the church couldn’t solve its problems, its leaders allowed Constantine to help. Constantine was the king of Rome. At that time, the top leaders for each church had the same power. But after that, the leader of the church in Rome became the most powerful leader in the Christian church. So, when the church allowed the government of Rome to solve its problems, things went from bad to worse.

Many of the worst chapters in Christian history happened because the church followed man-made rules instead of God’s law. Israel started to worship false gods. Israel’s kings wanted more and more control. The people started to offer their children to the statues of false gods. The church also followed the laws of a kingdom that didn’t believe in God. Christians who stayed loyal to God were killed because Rome saw them as enemies.

`In your own community, what are some of the things that could cause you to lose your faith or trust in God?`