---
title:  A Light To The Non-Jews
date:   24/04/2025
---

During Old Testament times, God started the people group of Israel for a very important reason: God wanted to save everyone on earth, and not punish them. For sure, most of us feel guilty when we see the behavior of someone who follows God. In the same way, God wanted Israel to be holy. Then their holy lives would help the people around them to see their sins. When we live holy lives, the people around us see an example of Jesus. Then they feel a need in their hearts to change their lives. So, the lives of God’s people, who keep His law (Revelation 14:12), show God’s love and His mercy to everyone around them.

What if the Israelites behaved the way that God asked them to and did what He told them? Then people from other countries would have come to them in peace. These non-Jewish people would have asked to know more about Israel and their God. Sad to say, as the story about Israel and Babylon shows, these non-Jewish people came to make war, not peace.

Jesus was the most perfect example of God’s love and mercy. Jesus is the only person who showed us this love. Jesus’ perfect example was meant to be an invitation to come to God (read John 3:16–21).

God started the Christian church for the same reason He started Israel: God wants to use His people to lead sinners to Jesus. God’s people do this work with the Three Angels’ Messages. These messages will go to “every nation [country] and to every family group and to the people of every language and to all the people of [on] the earth” (Revelation 14:6, NLV).

**What do the verses below teach us about God’s work for His people on this earth? How can we follow these important rules in our own lives?**

`Numbers 14:17–21`

`Isaiah 42:6; Isaiah 49:6; Isaiah 60:3`

`Revelation 18:1–4`

`How will God use us to invite His people to come out of Babylon (read Revelation 18:1–4)?`