---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   25/04/2025
---

Sin is a mystery. “More and more, this mystery did its evil work in the Christian church. At first, this mystery worked in a sneaky way to get control of men’s minds. Then, as this mystery grew stronger, it no longer tried to hide what it was doing. False beliefs came into the church. The attacks on Christians kept the evil out of the church for a time. But then the attacks stopped. Kings joined the church. The church stopped being the same as Jesus in her heart and became filled with pride. The church replaced the laws of God with man-made rules and ideas. Many people were happy when Constantine became a Christian. Many non-Christian people joined the church at that time. Now evil grew strong in the church. The worship of false gods controlled the church. False teachings, celebrations, and ideas were mixed with the Christian faith and the worship of those people who said they were followers of Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 49, 50, adapted.

Read, again, the question at the end of Wednesday’s study. Aren’t we as Christians in danger of becoming filled with pride? If we think we aren’t, we are lying to ourselves.

**Discussion Questions**:

`When the Babylonians took God’s people away, the Israelites felt a lot of pain and loss. God commanded Abraham to leave Babylon (Chaldea) to start a people group, Israel. Israel’s job was to show God’s love to everyone on earth. Now God let the Babylonians carry them away in chains. While the Israelites were in Babylon, God showed Israel how things would have been different if they had obeyed Him. King Nebuchadnezzar gave his life to Jesus (Daniel 4). At the end of their time in Babylon, God used a Persian king, Cyrus, to serve as a type of Savior. Cyrus released God’s people from Babylon and sent them back to the Promised Land. Cyrus wasn’t a Jew. But God chose him to show His plan to save sinners. What lessons do all of these things teach us about God and how He views the human family?`

`We may not be in Babylon. But how much of Babylon is in us? What can we do about this problem?`