---
title:  Children Of The Promise
date:  24/04/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 15:1–3; Isaiah 25:8; 1 Corinthians 2:9; Revelation 22:1–5; 1 Peter 2:9.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘You can be sure that I will be with you always. I will continue with you until the end of time” (Matthew 28:20, ERV).

A FATHER AND HIS TEN-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER spend their holiday at the seashore. One day they go swimming in the sea. They are both good swimmers. But they get separated after they swim far away from the beach. The father knows that the waves pull them both out to sea. So, he shouts to his daughter: “Mary, I am going to swim back to the beach to get help. If you get tired, lie on your back. You can float all day that way. I will come back for you.”

“Soon many people in boats search the water for one small girl. Hundreds of people stand on the beach. The people heard the news about the little girl and waited for someone to find her. Four hours later, someone in a boat finds her. She is far away from land. She calmly floats on her back. She is not afraid at all. The people on the beach cry tears of joy when the little girl comes back. The child is very calm. She thinks everyone is behaving in a strange way. She says, ‘Father told me I can float all day on my back. He also told me not to worry. He will come for me. So I just swam and floated because I trusted him to come back for me.’ ”–H. M. S. Richards, “When Jesus Comes Back,” Voice of Prophecy News, March 1949, page 5, adapted.