---
title:  “ ‘i Will Defend You’ ” 
date:  25/04/2021
---

**After these things happened, the Lord spoke his word to Abram in a vision [special dream]. God said, ‘Abram, don’t be afraid. I will defend you. And I will give you a great [very big] reward’ ” (Genesis 15:1, ICB).**

`Read Genesis 15:1—3. What is the first thing that the Lord says to Abram? Why do you think the Lord says this? What reasons does Abram have for being afraid?`

Do you see that the Lord says to Abram “ I will defend you”? The word “you” is very interesting. “You” is a pronoun. This part of speech shows us that God wants to have a personal friendship with Abram. The word “you” also  shows us that God will talk with Abram One-on-one or Person to person. That is how God will communicate with all of us.

The NIrV writes Genesis 15:1 this way: “ ‘Abram, do not be afraid. I am like [the same as] a shield to you. I am your very great [big] reward’ ” (Genesis 15:1, NIrV). Do you see that God compares Himself to a shield? In what way is God the same as a shield to Abram? Think about what you know about shields already. What do they do? They protect our bodies from attacks by our enemy, right? We can hide behind shields when we are attacked. They will keep us safe. God shows that He will keep Abram safe from hurt. He will protect and defend Abram the same as a shield.

The first time the word “shield” is written in the Bible is in Genesis 15:1. Yes, other Bible writers say that God acts the same as a shield (Deuteronomy 33:29; Psalm 18:30; Psalm 84:11; Psalm 144:2). But Genesis 15:1 is the only time that God names Himself the shield of someone.

`When God names Himself the shield of someone, what does that show us? Does it show something to Abram that it may not show us now? Is this promise for us too? Can we ask God to be our shield? Does this promise show that nothing will ever hurt us? Explain. How is God the same as a shield? What does this word picture mean to you?`

“Jesus cares for us. His love for us is stronger than the love of a mother for her child. . . . Our Savior watches over you. He will protect you and make you safe.”—Ellen G. White, Sons and Daughters of God, page 77, adapted.