---
title:  'The Promise Of A Savior: Part 1 '
date:  26/04/2021
---

**‘All the families on earth will be blessed because of you and your descendants [future children]’ ” (Genesis 28:14, ERV).**

**“You belong to Christ [Jesus], so you are Abraham’s descendants [future children]. You get all of God’s blessings because of the promise that God made to Abraham” (Galatians 3:29, ERV).**

God tells Abraham, many times that the people on the earth will be blessed because of the family of Abraham. (Read Genesis 12:3; Genesis 18:18; Genesis 22:18.) Why does God make this same promise so often to Abraham? Because this promise is the most important promise that God makes him. What does this promise show us exactly? It shows us that God will choose the children of Abraham to be His special people: the Jews. God will teach the Jews about Himself. Then the Jews will teach all the families on the earth about God, too, and His plan to save them from sin. God keeps His promise by sending Jesus. Jesus comes from the family of Abraham to teach the people on the earth about God. Jesus shows everyone the love of God when He dies on the cross. On the cross, Jesus pays for the sins of all the families on the earth.

`Think about the promises that God made after the Flood when He makes His special agreement with Noah. God promises not to destroy the earth with water again. What good is this promise without the promise that Jesus saves us from sin? What good are any of the promises of God without the promise of everlasting life?`

`What does it mean that God will bless all the families of the earth because of Abraham?`

The biggest and best promise from God is the promise that He will send a Savior. Everyone who accepts Jesus as his Savior is part of the family of Abraham. Because God sees us as the children of Abraham, we get the blessing that God promised to Abraham (Galatians 3:8, 9, 27–29). What is that promise? It is the promise of everlasting life. It is the promise of a life with no sin, evil, pain, and suffering. Can you think of a better promise than that?