---
title:  The Promise Of A Savior 
date:  27/04/2021
---

**What must we do if we want to have real happiness? We must travel into a very far country. We must be willing to do things we have never done before.”—Thomas Browne, adapted.**

`Look at the quotation by Thomas Browne above. Do you agree with it or disagree? How do 1 Thessalonians 4:16–18 and Revelation 3:12 help you to know the answer?`

Augustine writes about the sin problem that is part of human life: “This life of ours is filled with evil. From the start, we see that the human family is cursed. First, think about the problems that happen because of everything we need to know and do not know. Then, think about all those empty and silly things that we love so much. Our love for these cheap things is the same as drinking poison. This love will cause us heartache, sorrow, and fear. Some humans feel joy when they fight wars, kill, and cause disagreements. Other people love to steal. Human hearts everywhere are filled with pride, greed, and law breaking. People sin against God and religion all the time. They lie and hurt their neighbors. They cheat and break stuff that belongs to other people. Some humans force other people to have sex with them. Other people have sex with their own family members. Some of these sins are too nasty and evil to talk about. All these sins and secret wishes in the human heart are wrong. Worse, the courts are not just or fair. Crime fills the earth. But no one pays any attention.”—Augustine of Hippo, City of God, Gerald G. Walsh, translator (New York: Doubleday and Company, 1958), book 22, chapter 22, page 519, adapted.

Augustine wrote this quote more than 1500 years ago. But it shows the crime that happens in many modern cities today, right? Humans have not changed very much. That is why people want to escape from the evil in this life.

We have good news. Maybe our life is hard now. But the future looks wonderful because of Jesus. Jesus lived, died, and came back to life for us. He saves us from our sin. He serves in heaven right now as our High Priest. A high priest is a chief religious leader. As our High Priest, Jesus keeps the promise that God made to Abraham and to his future children. Jesus helps us to come to the Father to get mercy and forgiveness from sin.