---
title:  A Special And Powerful People 
date:  28/04/2021
---

God makes Abraham a promise. God will bless all humans because of Abraham. The Lord also says that the future children of Abraham will become a “ ‘great [special] and powerful nation [people group]’ ” (Genesis 18:18, ERV; read also Genesis 12:2; Genesis 46:3). This is a big promise for God to make to Abraham. Abraham is married to a woman who is too old to have children. So, when Abraham has no children, not even a son, God gives Abraham both.

The promise does not happen fully when Abraham is alive. Later, Isaac and Jacob do not see the promise happen. God tells Jacob that the promise will come to pass in Egypt (Genesis 46:3). Jacob goes to Egypt. But he really does not see the promise happen fully. Of course, God keeps His word later. But the promise does not happen right away.

`Why does the Lord want to make a special people from the children of Abraham? What special work will the Jews do for God? For the answers, read Exodus 19:5, 6; Isaiah 60:1–3; and Deuteronomy 4:6–8. Write your answers below:`

God has a plan for Israel. He wants them to teach people about Him. If Israel will teach people on the earth about God, then God will bless Israel. Israel will be a happy, healthy, and holy people. They will show the blessing that comes from obeying God. Then people from all over the earth will accept the Lord and worship Him (Isaiah 56:7). In this way, humans will come to Israel to learn about God and the coming Savior, who will be born a Jew.

“God gives land to the people of Israel. This land belongs to other people. If the people who own this land refuse to worship and serve God, then God will give their land to the Jews. God has a special plan for the Jews. He wants His people to teach the people near them about God. God also wants all the people on earth to come to Him. The animal offerings that the Jews bring to God as part of their worship show the future death of Jesus on the cross. This teaching shows other people that Jesus will take away their sin. God will give everlasting life to everyone who accepts Jesus as his or her Savior.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 290, adapted.