---
title:  “ ‘i Will Make You Famous’ ” 
date:  29/04/2021
---

**‘I will build a great [special and important] nation from you. I will bless you and make your name famous. People will use your name to bless other people’ ” (Genesis 12:2, ERV).**

`“In Genesis 12:2, God promises to make the name of Abram famous. Why does the Lord want to do that for any sinner, even if that person obeys Him and shows faith? Can anyone do anything to earn honor or fame from God? (Read Romans 4:1–5; James 2:21–24.) Does God give fame to Abram so that Abram can please himself and do whatever he wants? Or does the gift of fame show us something more about the plan of God for the human family? Explain.`

`Compare Genesis 11:4 with Genesis 12:2. In what big way are these two verses different from each other? How does one verse show the idea that we are “saved by our good behavior”? How does the other verse show that we are “saved by faith”?`

God saves us by our faith in Jesus. But we must do our part. We must choose to accept Jesus. God cannot force us to make Him our Savior. Remember, the worldwide war between Jesus and Satan happens all around us. We are a part of this fight. The choices we make show which side we are on. Both humans and angels watch what we do in this war (1 Corinthians 4:9). Who we are, what we say, and what we do are important. By our words, actions, and our feelings, too, we can help bring praise and honor to the Lord. The Lord does so much for us. Or, we can bring shame on God and His name. So, when the Lord tells Abram that He will make Him famous, the Lord does not mean what humans mean when they talk about someone being famous. What makes the name of someone excellent in the eyes of God? An excellent name means a person shows faith. He or she obeys God. He or she has a heart with no pride. This person loves other people. Sure, people on this earth respect all these things. But in their eyes, these things do not make a person famous. In the eyes of God, these things do.

`Who are some famous people today? What makes them famous? Now compare them to Abraham. How does this show us the wrong ideas that people today have about fame?`