---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/04/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Abraham in Canaan,” page 132–144 and “The Test of Faith,” pages 145–155, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“God gives Abraham a test. This test is not easy. God asks Abraham to give up something very big. . . . Abraham does not wait to obey God. Abraham does not question God about the land of promise. . . . It is enough that God gives Abraham His promise. As the servant of God, Abraham must obey. The happiest place on earth for Abraham is the place where God wants him to be.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 126, adapted.

“Abram enters Canaan. Then the Lord shows Himself to Abram. The Lord tells Abram that Abram will travel all over the land. But God will give the land to the future of children of Abram (Genesis 12:7). God makes this promise several times (read Genesis 13:14, 15, 17; Genesis 15:13, 16, 18; Genesis 17:18; Genesis 28:13, 15; Genesis 35:12). Four hundred years later, God keeps His promise (Genesis 15:13, 16). The Lord announces to Moses that He will bring Israel out of Egypt into a land filled with milk and honey (Exodus 3:8, 17; Exodus 6:8). God makes the same promise to Joshua (Joshua 1:3). In David’s time, most of this promise happens (Genesis 15:18–21; 2 Samuel 8:1–14; 1 Kings 4:21, 1 Chronicles 19:1–19).

Now read Hebrews 11:9, 10, 13–16. These verses show us that Abraham and the other Old Testament fathers saw the land of Canaan as a word picture. Canaan showed them the future home of all humans that God saves. Because of sin, no home we have will continue forever. Life is short. Life is the same as “a fog. You can see it for a short time, but then it goes away” (James 4:14, ERV). We are the spiritual children of Abraham. As his children, we, too, must understand that “here on earth, we don’t have a city that lasts [continues] forever. But we are waiting for the city that we will have [live in] in the future” (Hebrews 13:14, ERV). This earth is filled with change and ruin. But we have the promise of a future life with Jesus. This promise helps our hearts to stay steady and full of faith.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How should the promise of a new earth make our Christian experience stronger? (Compare Matthew 5:5; 2 Corinthians 4:17, 18; Revelations 21:9, 10; Revelation 22:17.)`

`“The fame and honor that counts in the eyes of God comes from obeying His law and living His plan for our lives.”—SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 293, adapted. What does this quotation mean?`

**Summary**: Promises! They are precious to the Christian! Will God make them happen? Our faith says that the answer is Yes.