---
title:  Helping People as Jesus Helped Them
date:   15/08/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Matthew 5:13, 14; Matthew 8:5–10; Matthew 4:23–25; Matthew 25:31–46.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “He saw the crowds of people and felt sorry for them because they were worried and helpless. They were like [the same as] sheep without a shepherd” (Matthew 9:36, ICB).

JESUS DEEPLY CARED about people. He lived to serve people, not Himself. Jesus met the needs of the people around Him. He served God by showing people love and mercy. He healed their bodies, minds, and hearts. Jesus healed people with awful skin problems. He helped the blind to see and the deaf to hear. He set people free from demons. Jesus fed the hungry. He took care of the needy. When Jesus did these things, the hearts and lives of people were changed.

Why were the lives of people changed? Because people saw that Jesus deeply cared about them. His love was real. That is why their hearts were open to the Bible truths He taught. “Only Jesus’ way will give us true success in reaching people. The Savior spent time with people. He wanted what was best for them. He was kind to them. He took care of their needs. He won their hearts. Then He told them, ‘Follow Me.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 143, adapted. Jesus saw that people on this earth needed to see the Good News in action, not just hear people talk about it. When we live the way Jesus did, our lives will show Bible truth. Our lives will give power to our words about Jesus.
