---
title:  HOW DID JESUS FEEL ABOUT PEOPLE?
date:   16/08/2020
---

Jesus always looked for the good in other people. He brought out the best in them. The religious leaders in Jesus’ day blame Jesus because He “ ‘welcomes sinners and even eats with them!’ ” (Luke 15:2, ERV). The leaders are worried because Jesus is friendly with people who do not respect God. The leaders’ ideas about religion are different from Jesus’ ideas. The leaders think religion is about God’s people separating from sinners. They say, “We should not involve ourselves with sinners in any way.” So, the leaders are surprised when Jesus says, “ ‘I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me. I have come to get sinners to follow me’ ” (Matthew 9:13, NIrV).

The Jewish leaders’ religion is about avoiding sin. They think, “We must do everything we can to keep from getting dirty from sin.” So, they stay away from people they think are bad or full of sin. Jesus’ way of doing things is very different. He came to this earth. It is the same as a pit filled with snakes. But Jesus does not avoid us. He jumps right in to save us. He is “ ‘the light of the world’ ” (John 8:12, ERV).

`Read Matthew 5:13, 14. What two word pictures does Jesus use to show us who His followers are? Why do you think Jesus uses these word pictures? Read also John 1:9; John 12:46; and Philippians 2:15 for the answer.`

Salt is very important during New Testament times. It is worth a lot. At times, the Roman army used salt as money. So, salt is a word picture for riches. Salt also gives flavor to food and keeps it from spoiling. When Jesus says His followers are the same as salt, what is He really saying? He is saying that the true riches on this earth are not the people with the most power and money. The true riches on this earth are Christians who build up the kingdom of God. Their kind and unselfish works help to keep love alive on this earth.

The second word picture Jesus uses in Matthew 5:14 is light. Light does not avoid darkness. Light shines in the dark. Light does not separate from darkness. It makes the darkness become light. Jesus’ followers must bring the light of God’s truth to people whose lives are dark with sin.
