---
title:  JESUS IS KIND TO PEOPLE
date:   17/08/2020
---

As we learned yesterday, Jesus always wanted to bring out the best in people. Even when times were hard, Jesus acted with mercy and love. Luke tells us that the crowds “were amazed [surprised] at the beautiful words he spoke” (Luke 4:22, ICB). John tells us that “grace [mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin] and truth came through [from] Jesus Christ” (John 1:17, ERV). Jesus won people’s hearts. His kind words caused them to open their hearts to Him.

`Read Matthew 8:5–10 and Mark 12:34. What hope-filled words does Jesus say to a Roman army leader and a Jewish religious leader?`

Jesus’ words to the centurion, or Roman army leader, are a big change from what the Jewish religious leaders think. Think about how the centurion must feel when Jesus tells him that his faith is bigger than anything Jesus ever found in any person in all of Israel! Wow! Think also about what the Jewish religious leader feels when Jesus tells him, “ ‘You are not far from God’s kingdom’ ” (Mark 12:34, NIrV). What kind words! Jesus has the skill to bring out the best in people. Our kind words, thanks, and praise can help people to open their hearts to the Good News. Look for the good in the people around you. Let them know how much you are thankful for them and what they do.

`Compare Isaiah 42:3; Colossians 4:5, 6; and Ephesians 4:15. What important rules do these verses teach us about sharing our faith with other people and being friendly to them?`

When our words are encouraging and filled with God’s love and mercy, we will have power to change people’s lives for the better. Isaiah tells us that Jesus “will not break a broken branch or put out a little fire” (Isaiah 42:3, NLV). These word pictures show us that Jesus is so loving that He is careful not to hurt someone who is just coming to believe in Him. Jesus will not remove or destroy the smallest “sparks” of faith in their hearts.

`“How” we say something is as important as “what” we say. Maybe it is even more important. Why is this true?`
