---
title: 'Jesus’ Healing Work: Part 1'
date: 18/08/2020
---

Jesus shared the truth in ways that were powerful and full of life. Every day Jesus met people who had many different needs. We meet these same types of people too. Their minds, bodies, hearts, and spirits all have needs. Jesus is excited to work with us to meet the needs of these people. How do we work with Jesus to do that? By showing that we care for people when they are sad or lonely. Jesus also helps us show people that we care about their joys, hopes, and dreams.

While on earth, Jesus meets people’s everyday needs so that He can meet their deepest spiritual needs. These everyday needs also are named “felt needs.” A felt need is a problem that someone knows that he or she cannot solve on his or her own. This person needs help. Maybe he or she needs to stop smoking, lose weight, eat better food, or needs help with stress. Maybe this person has more basic needs. He or she may need food, a house, or to see a doctor. Or this person may need advice about his or her marriage or family.

Felt needs are different from an ultimate need. An ultimate need is the thing that humans need most. They need a personal connection with God. They need to know that the choices they make in this life can lead to everlasting life or death. We live on a planet ruined and hurt by sin. So, our becoming one with God is our ultimate need.

`Read the story in Matthew 9:1–7 about the man who cannot walk or move his body. Also, read the story in Mark 5:25–34 about the woman who has bled for 12 years. How do these stories show us that Jesus felt that healing the body was connected with helping people to become one with God?`

Jesus’ healing work includes much more than healing the body and mind. Jesus deeply wants people to become whole again. For Jesus, healing someone’s body without healing his or her spirit is not true healing. God’s love should cause us to want the best health for people. God’s love will help us to care even more for their spiritual health. We should want people to live happy and healthy lives here and in heaven. Remember, every person that Jesus heals on earth dies later on. So, his or her real need above everything else is spiritual, right?
