---
title:  "JESUS’ HEALING WORK: PART 2"
date:   19/08/2020
---

`Read Matthew 4:23–25 and Matthew 9:35. What three things did Jesus do to meet people’s needs? How did these three things change people’s lives for the better?`

Jesus’ work on earth has three parts: (1) teaching, (2) preaching, and (3) healing. Jesus shares Bible truth so that we will have a reason to live. He says, “ ‘I have come so they may have life. I want them to have it [life] in the fullest possible way’ ” (John 10:10, NIrV). Jesus’ work on earth is filled with grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. Jesus came to fill our lives with grace now and forever.

`Read Mark 1:32–39. Jesus spends all day healing the sick and casting evil spirits out of people. Then the next morning He spends time in prayer when the crowds likely come again to Him for more healing. Then Jesus leaves for another city. Why doesn’t Jesus heal the people? Do you see His reason in Mark 1:38, 39?`

This story is very helpful. Jesus heals many people. The next day, Jesus leaves the crowds. They come looking for Jesus. They also need healing. So, why doesn’t Jesus stay and heal them? Jesus says that the reason He came to this earth is to preach the Good News. Jesus is not only a miracle worker. But He also is God’s own Son who came to save humans. Jesus does not want to heal only people’s bodies. Jesus also wants people to accept the gift of everlasting life. He wants to give them this gift. Jesus tells us in clear words why He came to this earth: “ ‘The Son of Man came to find lost people and save them’ ” (Luke 19:10, ERV). Each time Jesus heals someone, He shows people who God is and what is in His heart. Every healing act that Jesus does ends suffering and gives someone the chance for everlasting life.

`Maybe you are poor or sick. Can your life be full of the grace that Jesus offers you anyway? Does Jesus offer people something deeper than only healing their bodies? If yes, what is it? In what ways can we lead people to spiritual truths when we help take care of the needs of their hearts and bodies?`
