---
title: 'What Jesus Cares About Most'
date: 20/08/2020
---

In Matthew 25, Jesus tells His followers three end-time picture stories. These picture stories show us what Jesus expects of His end-time people who wait for His Second Coming. The picture story about the ten sleeping girls shows us that it is important to be filled with the Holy Spirit. The picture story about the ten talents shows us why we must use the gifts that God gives to each one of us. The picture story about the sheep and the goats shows us that true Christians take care of the needs of the people that God brings into our lives each day.

`Read Matthew 25:31–46. What does Jesus say that real Christianity is all about? Make a list of the types of work done for God in these verses.`

The picture story in Matthew 25:31–46 talks about taking care of people’s health needs. At the same time, is there something more to this story? Yes, there is. Humans have a hunger and thirst for Jesus in their spirits. Only Jesus can fill that need and take away their hunger and thirst (John 6:35; John 4:13, 14). We are all empty until Jesus fills us with His holy life. Jesus covers us with His love and forgiveness the same as a person who puts on clothes is covered (Revelation 3:18; Revelation 19:7, 8).

The Old Testament messengers often say that humans are sick and cannot be healed (Isaiah 1:5; Jeremiah 30:12–15). But Jeremiah shows us the one thing that can heal us: “ ‘ “And I will bring your health back and heal your wounds [deep cuts],” says the Lord’ ” (Jeremiah 30:17, ERV). Jesus heals us from the sin that makes us sick and kills us.

The picture story about the sheep and goats warns us to take care of the needs of people around us. It also shows us how Jesus takes care of the deepest needs of our hearts. This story also invites us to work with Jesus to take care of the needs of people around us. So, we do not want to live selfish lives and do nothing to help people. Then we will be in danger of losing everlasting life. In the picture story, Jesus praises the people who give their lives to help people. Then the Lord welcomes them into heaven to live with Him forever. But He does not welcome the people who lived selfish lives. They did not care about helping people on this earth. So, Jesus does not welcome them into heaven.
