---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 21/08/2020
---

“Many have no faith in God. They also no longer have any faith in humans. But their hearts are moved by kind, helpful acts. The person who moves their hearts does not work for praise or money. He comes to their homes. He helps the sick. He feeds the hungry. He gives clothes to people who do not have any. He comforts people with sad hearts. He leads the ones he helps to Jesus. This human worker shows he is Jesus’ messenger. The love and pity in his human heart come from Jesus. As the people see all the kind acts he does, their hearts are moved. They feel grateful. Faith grows in their hearts. They see that God cares for them. They are ready to listen as the Bible is opened and taught to them.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 145, adapted.

Jesus’ work helps people to trust Him and helps them to accept the Good News. The church is Jesus’ body on earth. With loving hearts, church members meet the needs of people everywhere. Jesus sends us out in His name. He sends us into our towns and neighborhoods to make the lives of people better. Yes, we need to be careful about not being made dirty by sin and the evil things on this earth. At the same time, we must not stay away from people. We must go to them and touch their lives where they are. We must let God use us to do His work. God wants to take people from where they are and bring them to where they should be.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Why is the loving work that Jesus does for God so powerful in melting hard hearts and helping people to accept spiritual truths? What if we as a people showed the same concern for people that Jesus did? How will it make us better witnesses for God and Bible truth?`

`2. Think about a time when you said something that was true. But you said it in the wrong way. What did you learn from that experience to help you not to do it again? Why is it best to share the truth only when we are calm?`

`3. What types of work for God can your church do in your community that you are not now doing?`
