---
title: 'Heavenward Unity'
date: 29/07/2021
---

#### inSight

“God celebrated the first marriage. Thus the institution has for its originator the Creator of the universe. ‘Marriage is honorable’ (Hebrews 13:4); it was one of the first gifts of God to man, and it is one of the two institutions that, after the Fall, Adam brought with him beyond the gates of Paradise. When the divine principles are recognized and obeyed in this relation, marriage is a blessing; it guards the purity and happiness of the race, it provides for man’s social needs, it elevates the physical, the intellectual, and the moral nature.” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1890), 46.)

“There is in itself no sin in eating and drinking, or in marrying and giving in marriage. It was lawful to marry in the time of Noah, and it is lawful to marry now, if that which is lawful is properly treated, and not carried to sinful excess.” (Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald, 1952), 121.)

“God wants the home to be the happiest place on earth, the very symbol of the home in heaven. Bearing the marriage responsibilities in the home, linking their interests with Jesus Christ, leaning upon His arm and His assurance, husband and wife may share a happiness in this union that angels of God commend.” (Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald, 1952), 102.)

“Marriage, a union for life, is a symbol of the union between Christ and His church.” (White, Testimonies for the Church 7:46.)

“In the youthful mind marriage is clothed with romance, and it is difficult to divest it of this feature, with which imagination covers it, and to impress the mind with a sense of the weighty responsibilities involved in the marriage vow. This vow links the destinies of the two individuals with bonds which naught but the hand of death should sever.

“Every marriage engagement should be carefully considered, for marriage is a step taken for life. Both the man and the woman should carefully consider whether they can cleave to each other through the vicissitudes of life as long as they both shall live.” (White, Adventist Home, 340.)

“Examine carefully to see if your married life would be happy or inharmonious and wretched. Let the questions be raised, Will this union help me heavenward? Will it increase my love for God? And will it enlarge my sphere of usefulness in this life? If these reflections present no drawback, then in the fear of God move forward.” (Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald, 1952), 45.)

“One about to marry a wife should stop to consider candidly why he takes this step. Is his wife to be his helper, his companion, his equal, or will he pursue toward her such a course that she cannot have an eye single to the glory of God? Will he venture to give loose rein to his passions and see how much care and taxation he can subject his wife to without extinguishing life, or will he study the meaning of the words, ‘Whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus’?” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies on Sexual Behavior, 15.)

` `