---
title:  God Accepts Us Because of Jesus
date:   02/07/2023
---

A thank-you note often includes the name of the gift or gifts that someone gives you. Paul includes a long gift list in Ephesians 1:3–14. Paul thanks God for the blessings that the Good News about Jesus gives us.

Paul praises God because He “has given us every spiritual blessing in heaven” (Ephesians 1:3, ERV). The word “spiritual” comes from the Greek word “pneumatikos,” which shows us that our blessings come from the Holy Spirit. The word “Spirit” is “pneuma” in the Greek language. This word helps us remember the ending of Paul’s gift list. At the end of his gift list, Paul celebrates the Holy Spirit’s work in our lives (Ephesians 1:13, 14).

Ephesians 1:3–6 talks about how God views us because of everything Jesus did for us. Before Jesus made the earth, God chose us because of Jesus. God “chose us to be holy and without blame in his eyes” (Ephesians 1:4, NIrV). We are God’s sons and daughters because God made us and because Jesus saves us (Ephesians 1:5). “We have been accepted by God through [because of] Jesus Christ, whom [who is the One] he loves so much” (Ephesians 1:6, WE). In short, God wants us to be saved. We lose God’s saving gift when we choose to sin.

`Paul tells us that “God has given us every spiritual blessing in heaven” (Ephesians 1:3, ERV). What do the words “in heaven” mean? Read Ephesians 1:3, 20; Ephesians 2:6; Ephesians 3:10; and Ephesians 6:12 for the answer. Compare “in heaven” to “all the heavens [the place above the stars],” which we read about in Ephesians 4:10, NIrV. How are the two wordings different?`

In Ephesians, the words “in heaven” or “all the heavens” mean the place where God lives (Ephesians 1:3; Ephesians 4:10, NIrV). “In heaven” and “all the heavens” also mean the place where the spiritual powers live (Ephesians 1:10, 20, 21; Ephesians 3:10, 15; Ephesians 6:12) and the place where Jesus sits next to God on His right side (Ephesians 1:20). God offers Christians blessings from heaven because of Jesus (Ephesians 1:3; Ephesians 2:6). At the same time, evil powers fight against Jesus our Lord and the work He does for us in heaven (Ephesians 3:10; Ephesians 6:12).

`God chose us because of Jesus (Ephesians 1:4). What is God’s plan for us?`