---
title:  The Cost of Forgiveness
date:   03/07/2023
---

In the past, sin controlled the lives of Paul’s readers. That’s why Paul said his readers were the same as dead people: “In the past your spiritual lives were dead because of your sins and the things you did wrong against God” (Ephesians 2:1, ICB). They were “dead” because they were doing the things Satan commanded them to do (Ephesians 2:1–3). They were slaves to sin and Satan. They were too weak to run away from him. They needed someone to save them. God sent Jesus to save them. Paul celebrates two blessings that God’s mercy gives us: forgiveness and being saved.

`“Because of the blood of Christ, we are bought and made free from the punishment of sin” (Ephesians 1:7, NLV). What does it mean that we are “bought and made free”? Paul talks about this same idea in Colossians 1:13, 14; Titus 2:13, 14; and Hebrews 9:15. How do these verses talk about the same thing that we read about in Ephesians 1:7, 8?`

The words written as “made free” (Ephesians 1:7) come from the Greek word “apolutrōsis.” “Apolutrōsis” meant to buy a slave’s freedom or to pay someone money to free a slave. Slaves cost a lot of money. So, when Paul talks about how God frees us from sin, he wants us to understand that God paid a high price to make us free.

How much did our freedom from sin cost God? As we just read, “Because of the blood of Christ, we are bought and made free from the punishment of sin” (Ephesians 1:7, NLV). For sure, God paid a high price to free us from sin. Because of Jesus, we are no longer sin’s slaves!

“When God saves us from sin, He shows us what He thinks of us. He thinks we are people, not things. When God bought our freedom, He made us citizens of heaven. We are no longer slaves on earth.”—Alister E. McGrath, What Was God Doing on the Cross? (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 1992), page 78, adapted.

Jesus’ death on the cross gave us many blessings. Jesus gave us the gift of forgiveness (Ephesians 1:7). He accepted the price of our sin, both from the past and in the future (Colossians 2:14). God became our Father, who gives us His loving favor and mercy (Ephesians 1:7, 8).