---
title:  God’s Wonderful Plan
date:   04/07/2023
---

`What is God’s plan for all time? How big is this plan? Read Ephesians 1:9, 10 for the answers.`

What is God’s final plan? He wants to join everything, everywhere, in Jesus.

Paul’s uses a Greek word to show this idea. The Greek word is “anakephalaiōsasthai.” This fancy big word means to “add up” all things. In New Testament times, when accountants added up a column of numbers, they put the total at the top of the column. In the same way, Jesus is at the top of God’s final plan. God made this plan before He made the earth and the sky (Ephesians 1:4). God’s plan is forever. So, we can see that God’s plan is very big.

God’s whole plan to save us is about Jesus and His death on the cross, His waking up from the dead, His going to heaven, and His being honored in front of the angels (Ephesians 1:15–2:10). God’s plan also included starting the church on earth. The church will help to join humans together, both Jews and non-Jews (Ephesians 2:11–3:13).

In this way, the church shows Satan and his followers that God’s plan is working and that Satan’s kingdom will end (Ephesians 3:10). The Bible tells us that Satan’s end is coming: “The devil has come down to you. He is very angry. He knows his time is short” (Revelation 12:12, NIrV).

The last half of Paul’s letter starts with an announcement for peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4:1–16). Then Paul tells the church to avoid behavior that destroys agreement. Paul tells church members to work together with peace (Ephesians 4:17–6:9). Paul ends his letter with a powerful word picture. He compares the church to a strong army. This “army” works together to make peace on earth in Jesus’ name (Ephesians 6:10–20).

`How can you celebrate the saving mercy and forgiveness that Jesus gives you? How do you feel when you remember that God’s mercy and forgiveness are part of God’s big plan? His mercy and forgiveness are part of His plan to save humans from sin and join together all things in peace and agreement in Jesus.`