---
title:  Praising God in All His Glory
date:   05/07/2023
---

> <p></p>
> “In Christ [Jesus] we were chosen to be God’s people. God had already chosen us to be his people, because that is what he wanted. And God is the One who makes everything agree with what he decides and wants. We are the first people who hoped in Christ. And we were chosen so that we would bring praise to God’s glory” (Ephesians 1:11, 12, ICB).

The Christians in Ephesus don’t understand who they are anymore. So, they feel hopeless (Ephesians 3:13). Paul wants to help the Ephesians understand who they are as Christians. Christians are God’s children (Ephesians 1:5). They have many blessings because of Jesus. God’s plan is being worked out in their lives (Ephesians 1:11). God also has a bigger plan to join together everything and everyone in Jesus (Ephesians 1:10). So, the Ephesians can trust that God forgives them and accepts them. They can trust in His blessings, too. They can announce the message in Ephesians 1:3–14 with trust and joy. What is this message? We should praise the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ!

`Paul says that “we will get what God promised for his people” (Ephesians 1:14, ICB; also, read Ephesians 1:11, 18). Why do you think this idea is important to Paul?`

Did a family member leave you a gift that you got after he or she died? Maybe a family member left you a special treasure or a lot of money. In Paul’s view, Christians got a gift when Jesus died. God gave them this gift (Ephesians 1:14). When Christians get this gift from God, they become a gift to God (Ephesians 1:17, 18).

In the Old Testament, God’s people are sometimes thought of as being His treasure or His “share” (Zechariah 2:12, NLV; also, read Deuteronomy 9:29 and Deuteronomy 32:9). So, we become God’s own treasure, as we see from Ephesians 1:18 and Ephesians 1:11. That’s why we can write Ephesians 1:11 this way: “Because of Jesus we belong to God.” Paul wants the Christians in Ephesus to know how much they are worth to God. The Ephesian Christians don’t only get a special treasure from God (Ephesians 1:14; Ephesians 3:6; compare Ephesians 5:5). They are God’s treasure.