---
title:  What the Holy Spirit Does for Us
date:   06/07/2023
---

`In Ephesians 1:13, 14, Paul explains how his readers’ lives changed after they accepted Jesus. How does the change in their lives happen?`

Paul uses two word pictures to show that the Holy Spirit is important to the lives of Christians. The first word picture is a mark. A mark is something that someone put on a contract in Bible times to show who he was. Marks were the same as signatures. The Holy Spirit is the same as a special mark that God puts on the lives of His people after they accept Jesus. In Bible times, people used special marks for many reasons. People put marks on copies of laws and agreements to show other people that they could trust these copies. Marks were put on containers to show how much was in the container or to show that what was inside the container was excellent (read Ezekiel 28:12, EXB). Sometimes people put marks on sales contracts to show that they saw the sale happen (read Jeremiah 32:10–14, 44). Marks were also put on contracts and letters (read 1 Kings 21:8) and contracts about adoptions. A mark also announced who was the owner of the contract or agreement. A mark was a promise, too. A mark showed the things the owner promised to protect. The Holy Spirit works in our lives the same as a mark. When we have the Holy Spirit in our hearts, we show that we belong to God and that God will protect us (compare Ephesians 4:30). So, now you know what the Bible means when it says, “God put his special mark on you by giving you the Holy Spirit that he promised” (Ephesians 1:13, ERV).

“Paul says that when you accept Jesus and believe in Him, the Holy Spirit marks you. The verb ‘marks’ comes from the Greek verb: ‘sphragizō.’ The Holy Spirit marks you as someone that God saved. Your mark also means that on the day that Jesus comes back He will take you home. This Bible truth is so wonderful! The Holy Spirit marks Jesus’ followers with the mark of God’s saving mercy when they first believe.”—Jiří Moskala, “Misinterpreted End-Time Issues: Five Myths in Adventism,” Journal of the Adventist Theological Society, volume 28, number 1 (2017), page 95, adapted.

The second word picture that Paul uses for the Holy Spirit is “a promise” (Ephesians 1:14, NLV). The Holy Spirit is God’s promise to us that we will get everything He promised to give us in full (compare 2 Corinthians 1:22; 2 Corinthians 5:5).