---
title:  Additional thought
date:   07/07/2023
---

Does Ephesians 1:3–14 teach us that God decides the future of humans before they are born? Does God decide who will get everlasting life and who will get everlasting death before they are born? Sad to say, many people believe this false idea.

Let’s look at what Paul is really saying:

1\. In Ephesians 1:3–14, Jesus makes the choice to adopt us (Ephesians 1:5). So, we are adopted because of Him (Ephesians 1:4, 11). This idea suggests that God decides to save us because we choose to believe in Jesus. So, God doesn’t pick who will be saved or lost before people are born. When we have faith in Jesus, God accepts us.

2\. Ephesians 1:3–14 also talks about God’s saving work in our lives. God is our Father. We are His adopted children (Ephesians 1:3–5). God blesses us fully and freely (Ephesians 1:8). These words help us understand better God’s choice to save us. God is not a Judge who has no heart. God is a loving Father who cares about us (read Ephesians 3:15).

3\. Ephesians 1:3–14 also teaches us that God honors human choice. (Read, also, Ephesians 2:8; Ephesians 3:17; and Ephesians 4:1–6:20. These verses talk about our free choice and how we answer God in faith. Also, read 1 Timothy 2:4 and Acts 17:22–31 for more information on this topic.) As Ellen G. White said, “God gave His mercy to everyone on earth when He gave His Son to the human family. Men and women who choose to accept this gift will live in Christ Jesus. They will become who God wants them to be.”

—Steps to Christ, page 68, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God doesn’t pick and choose who will be saved or lost before we are born. What Bible verses can you use to explain this idea?`

`Who decides if a person is saved in Jesus?`

`“Because of the blood of Christ [Jesus], we are bought and made free from the punishment of sin. And because of His blood, our sins are forgiven. His loving-favor to us is so rich” (Ephesians 1:7, NLV). How does this verse show us that we are saved only by God’s mercy because of our faith, and not by our good behavior?`