---
title:  'Creation: Genesis as Foundation—Part 1'
date:  16/05/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
John 1:1–3, Gen. 1:3–5, Exod. 20:8–11, Rev. 14:7, Matt. 19:3–6, Rom. 5:12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made. In Him was life, and the life was the light of men” (John 1:1–4, NKJV).

The first chapters of Genesis are foundational for the rest of Scripture. The major teachings or doctrines of the Bible have their source in these chapters. Here we find the nature of the Godhead working in harmony as the Father, Son (John 1:1–3; Heb. 1:1, 2), and the Spirit (Gen. 1:2) to create the world and all that is in it, culminating in humanity (Gen. 1:26–28). Genesis also introduces us to the Sabbath (Gen. 2:1–3), the origin of evil (Genesis 3), the Messiah and the plan of redemption (Gen. 3:15), the worldwide, universal flood (Genesis 6–9), the covenant (Gen. 1:28; Gen. 2:2, 3, 15–17; Gen. 9:9–17; Genesis 15), the dispersal of languages and people (Genesis 10, Genesis 11), and the genealogies that provide the framework for biblical chronology from Creation to Abraham (Genesis 5, Genesis 11). Finally, the power of God’s spoken Word (Gen. 1:3, 2 Tim. 3:16, John 17:17), the nature of humanity (Gen. 1:26–28), God’s character (Matt. 10:29, 30), marriage between a man and a woman (Gen. 1:27, 28; Gen. 2:18, 21–25), stewardship of the earth and its resources (Gen. 1:26; Gen. 2:15, 19), and the promised hope of a new creation (Isa. 65:17, Isa. 66:22, Rev. 21:1) are all based on these first chapters, which will be our study this week and next.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 23._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Men today declare that Christ’s teachings concerning God cannot be substantiated by the things of the natural world, that nature is not in harmony with the Old and New Testament Scriptures. This supposed lack of harmony between nature and science does not exist. The Word of the God of heaven is not in harmony with human science, but it is in perfect accord with His own created science.

This living God is worthy of our thought, our praise, our adoration, as the Creator of the world, as the Creator of man. We are to praise God, for we are fearfully and wonderfully made. Our substance was not hid from Him when we were made in secret. His eyes saw our substance, yet being imperfect, and in His book all our members were written when as yet there was none of them. He breathed into our nostrils the breath of life. The inspiration of God has given us understanding.—Manuscript 117, September 21, 1898, “A Personal God.”

The doctrine of the incarnation of Christ in human flesh is a mystery, “even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations.” It is the great and profound mystery of godliness. “The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us.” Christ took upon Himself human nature, a nature inferior to His heavenly nature. Nothing so shows the wonderful condescension of God as this. …

Christ did not make-believe take human nature; He did verily take it. He did in reality possess human nature. “As the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same.” He was the Son of Mary; He was of the seed of David according to human descent. He is declared to be a man, even the man Christ Jesus. “This man,” writes Paul, “was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honor than the house.”—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, p. 1130.

It required nothing less than creative power to restore health to [the paralytic’s] decaying body. The same voice that spoke life to man created from the dust of the earth had spoken life to the dying paralytic. And the same power that gave life to the body had renewed the heart. He who at the creation “spake, and it was,” who “commanded, and it stood fast,” (Psalm 33:9), had spoken life to the soul dead in trespasses and sins. The healing of the body was an evidence of the power that had renewed the heart. Christ bade the paralytic arise and walk, “that ye may know,” He said, “that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins.” …

Jesus came to “destroy the works of the devil.” “In Him was life,” and He says, “I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.” He is “a quickening spirit.” 1 John 3:8; John 1:4; 10:10; 1 Corinthians 15:45. And He still has the same life-giving power as when on earth He healed the sick, and spoke forgiveness to the sinner.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 269, 270.