---
title:  The Echo of a Trumpet
date:  09/02/2019
---

**Introduction**: Joshua 6; Revelation 8–10

The inhabitants of Jericho peeked out of the city fearfully. Every day there had been this strange procession. Every day there had been a threatening trumpet blast. The earth quivered under the ominous pounding of thousands of feet on the Canaanite soil. The sound of trumpets echoed off the surrounding mountainside.

The children of Israel were obviously giving them a warning of some kind, but they could not understand what it was. Oddly, today was different—the strange procession did not stop with just one march around the city. There was a second, a third, a fourth, a fifth, a sixth, and a seventh. Suddenly, trumpets sounded powerfully, and a thousand voices roared like thunder.

In Revelation, John paints a similar picture of war ning trumpets. It almost echoes the Jericho story with the seven trumpet blasts. Mingled with the trumpet blasts are plagues of hail, blood, darkness, and locusts. This passage of Scripture reminds us of plagues unleashed on the proud Egyptian pharaoh who oppressed God’s people and defied God’s command to free them.

If we continue reading Revelation, we see an eagle that flies by, predicting three horrors, or woes. Locusts with scorpion tails crawl out of a smoky abyss. Two hundred million ferocious lion-headed, horselike beasts are unleashed with their riders to kill a third of the human race with fire, smoke, and sulfur. An angel with a small, bittersweet scroll descends on the land. The sea roars to the seven thunders, and they roar back. Two witnesses, represented by two olive trees and two candlesticks, are given the authority to destroy those who seek to destroy them.

This succession of events may be as puzzling to us as the seven rounds tramped around the great wall of Jericho on the seventh day were to its inhabitants. Like the inhabitants of Jericho, we might have a sense that surely these events hold great significance. Yet what could that meaning be?

Then the seventh angel blows his trumpet. Similar to the shout of the children of Israel in conquest of Jericho, we also hear loud voices in heaven: “ ‘The kingdoms of the world have become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of His Christ, and He shall reign forever and ever’ ” (Rev. 11:15, MEV).

Like Jericho crumbled, the kingdoms of this world are crumbling. As we explore these passages this week, we will come to a fuller understanding of the prophetic meaning of the seven trumpets and discover a message of hope. Distinct themes will emerge: God fights for His people, and He will bring the excruciating problem of sin to an end.

---

_Joneen Wilson, Colton, California, USA_