---
title:  Prayers of the Saints
date:  11/02/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 8:1–4

“Consider this: No one humble, sincere prayer of faith [is] overlooked; every prayer is heard.

“The psalmist prayed: ‘Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me: give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee. Let my prayer be set before thee as incense, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth: keep the door of my lips.’

“We have every evidence that the humble contrite prayer offered to God is regarded as precious in His sight. Not one is lost. The promise is: ‘Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find: knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? or if he ask an egg, will he give him a scorpion? If ye, then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?’

“This invitation is for all. The Saviour seeks to impress the truth by an illustration. Will the father whose child asks for bread, give him a stone? If he asks a fish, will he give him a serpent? If he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion? This is presented as an impossibility. Drawing the contrast between the heavenly and earthly parent, Christ adds, ‘If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?’ ”1

“The simple prayers indited by the Holy Spirit will ascend through the gates ajar, the open door which Christ has declared: I have opened, and no man can shut. These prayers, mingled with the incense of the perfection of Christ, will ascend as fragrance to the Father, and answers will come.”2

“If you will find voice and time to pray, God will find time and voice to answer.”

**React**

`1. What does incense represent in the Bible, according to these passages?`

`2. What are God’s promises regarding prayer?`

`3. What role do we have in receiving answers to our prayers? (Hint: it’s very simple!)`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Letter 65, 1898, August 23, 1898.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, p. 467.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, My Life Today, p. 16</sup>

_Michel Lee, Austin, Texas, USA_