---
title:  Trumpets in the Jewish Daily Sacrifice
date:  12/02/2019
---

**Evidence**: Num. 10:1–10; Rev. 8:2–5

The prelude to the seven trumpets in Revelation 8:2–5 evokes specific imagery from the tamid (Jewish daily sacrifice). Each morning, a priest would fill a censer with incense and coals from the altar of sacrifice. He then would carry this censer to the golden altar of incense inside the sanctuary. At the end of the service, accompanying priests would blow trumpets.

In the Old Testament, trumpets were important components in Israel’s dayto- day life. They accompanied the corporate prayers of God’s people and rallied Israel together against their oppressors. In Numbers 10, there are various purposes for which the trumpets were sounded. Sometimes they were used for the calling of assemblies, while on other occasions for traveling. Different groups were summoned by different calls. For example, one trumpet was for the princes, while an alarm call was for the entire camp of Israelites. The trumpets also had different players for different times. Sometimes these instruments were played by the priests. Other times, the trumpets were used for war.

In Numbers 10:8–10, God says that when trumpets are blown, He remembers His people. Throughout the Old Testament, God uses the imagery of trumpets mixed with prayer as a precursor of His people’s deliverance from oppression. Two examples are Judah’s deliverance from Israel (2 Chron. 13:13– 15) and Israel’s victory against Jericho (Josh. 6:20).

God also uses trumpets to sound warning. In Revelation, there is a warning, or alarm, of approaching judgment, just as the daily, or Holy Place, service is about to end. After the trumpets, the yearly, or the Most Holy Place, service of judgment is about to begin. These trumpets are not sounds of victory but call people to examine themselves, to repent, and to pray that God would save them! Joel 2:1 states, “Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand.”

Just as trumpets and prayers led to God remembering Israel’s oppression, this scene in Revelation leads to God’s vengeance on the persecutors of the Christian church. The imagery in chapters 8–11 signifies literal historical events starting with the time of John and continuing up to Christ’s second coming. We can see God’s mighty hand working in history to show His hatred of evil and His remembrance of His people.

---

_Jonathan Wheeler, Stanford, California, USA_