---
title:  Trust God Through His-Story
date:  13/02/2019
---

**How-to**: Amos 3:7; John 16:33; Rom. 8:28

The seven trumpets detail some of the darkest days in earth’s history. Yet in these end times, God is still working. The King is on the throne. Soon the seventh trumpet will sound, and God will take us home to live with Him forever. In the time before that heavenly reunion, how can we learn to trust God—especially with all the terror of the seven trumpets?

Make God the most important person in your life. To live through the time of the seven trumpets, we must make God our number one. It starts when we wake up in the morning. Thank God for keeping you safe, ask Him for guidance, and go through your day with His Word in your heart. This is why personal Bible study and prayer are important.

Follow world events through God’s eyes. All around us headlines are blaring the latest crisis. Whether it’s another war in the Middle East, a school shooting, or a political leader in trouble, our world is fixated on the bad news. Yet to understand what God is doing, we need to look at history and the story of the seven trumpets in light of the great controversy. The next time you read a negative headline, ask yourself, “What is God doing?” The seventh trumpet is about to sound, and it is our job to keep the big picture in mind.

Recognize that suffering is temporary. One of the greatest theological controversies is over theodicy, a word created to describe the process of trying to understand the existence of both a good God and an evil world. God’s character is one of only love, and love requires risk. God took the risk of creating humans, knowing that we could and even would fall into temptation. Yet because of His sacrifice on the cross, a day will come when suffering will cease (1 Cor. 15:54, 55). The story of the seven trumpets is not the end but a continuation of God’s love being worked out throughout history.

Share His-story with those around you. Do you have friends who are worried as they see bad things happening around them? Take a moment to share with them what God has done in your life personally, what He is doing in theirs, and what He is doing in history. Encourage your friends to trust God that in the end the seventh trumpet will sound, and He will make all right.

**React**

`1. What are some practical ways to see world events through God’s eyes?`

`2. How would you share with a friend your answer to why God allows suffering?`

---

_Jason Miller, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_