---
title:  "Christ’s Revelation: The Seventh Trumpet"
date:  14/02/2019
---

**Opinion**: Exod. 20:18, 19; 25:10–22; Rev. 11:15–19

While the topic of the seven trumpets is one that evokes debates about interpretation, we often neglect to see the main picture of the trumpets: Christ! Yes, it may sound cliché, and perhaps you may be tempted to say, “Everything in the Bible is about Christ.” However, Revelation 11:15–19 paints an image of thanksgiving, fulfillment, and revelation of the greatest event, the Second Coming. The seventh trumpet differs from the rest in that it focuses solely on revealing Christ and His ultimate purpose for us: “that I may dwell among them” (Exod. 25:8).

Oftentimes as we study Revelation and prophecies overall, we miss seeing Christ in the picture when in reality none of it makes sense without Him. The seventh trumpet clearly reveals the temple of God opened to us—sinful, weak, lowly human beings. The imagery utilized in verse 19 reminds us of the time when God spoke the law on Mount Sinai.

Fast-forward centuries later; Christ once again is trying to abide and dwell with His children; however, this time for eternity! Once the temple was open, the apostle John writes, “the ark of His covenant was seen,” meaning His presence, in the Most Holy Place, was seen (Rev. 11:19, NKJV). Can you imagine this? The Israelites told Moses to deal with God because they were scared, even after God had instructed Moses to tell Israel to prepare and cleanse themselves for three days. After “preparing” they could not stand in the presence of God Almighty. Are we ready to experience the seventh trumpet: the revealing of Christ Himself to humanity?

The ark of the covenant in Exodus contained the law of God, His covenant, His character. Similarly, in the New Testament God wants spiritual Israel to “keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12). History will repeat itself as God will have to cleanse the earth from the pollution of sin just like Moses and the Levites had to “cleanse” Israel from the idolatry and spiritual fornication committed with the golden calf. The beautiful thing about our Maker is that He provides hope for all who desire cleansing and a renewal of the covenant with Him. Christ is coming soon; the seventh trumpet is at the door! Are you ready for the encounter?

**React**

`1. Why is understanding that Christ is being revealed in the seven trumpets an important aspect of understanding the book of Revelation?`

`2. How can you prepare for the encounter with Christ?`

---

_Juan Antialon, Rahway, New Jersey, USA_