---
title:  Egyptian Plagues . . . Round Two?
date:  15/02/2019
---

**Exploration**: Revelation 8–11

**Conclude**

History records a loving Savior entreating, warning individuals and nations to turn from their wicked ways. Egypt, once a proud/powerful empire, bows to God’s command to “let my people go.” The story is similarly repeated in Revelation 8–11.

Fire and hail, blood and smoke, falling stars and destroying armies, fall upon a rebellious world. Mercy slighted folds her wings “to step down from the golden throne to give place to justice and swift-coming judgment.”1 Finding yourself fighting against God? Surrender to Him and Christ will “receive you unto [Himself] that where [He is] there ye may be also” (John 14:3).

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “Mercy Said No,” by CeCe Winans.

- Reflecting on how you daily respond to the grace and mercy of God.

- Interceding in prayer for your community and nation; for the salvation of souls while the voice of mercy is still pleading.

- Sharing thoughts or lessons learned during a prayer meeting or Sabbath School.

- Studying the prophecies of the third angel’s message of Revelation 14:9 and prayerfully sharing it with someone who has not heard it before.

- Memorizing Revelation 10.

- Baking cakes or cookies in the shape of the “little book” of Revelation 10:8–11 with the icing inscription “Sweet to the mouth, bitter to the belly.” Ask friends and family to share bittersweet life experiences and how God delivered them through it.

**Connect**

Exodus 5–12; Revelation 8–11.

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 63, “ ‘Thy King Cometh,’ ” and chap. 64, “A Doomed People.”

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 578.</sup>

_Wadenerson Saint Martin, Loma Linda, California, USA_