---
title:  Thanking God With Our Gifts
date:   24/02/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Matthew 6:19–21; Ephesians 2:8; 1 Peter 4:10; Luke 7:37–47. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “God so loved the world [people] that He gave His only Son. Whoever puts his trust in God’s Son will not be lost but will have life that lasts forever” (John 3:16, NLV). 

OUR GOD loves to give. This great truth is shown in the gift of Jesus’ death. “Godsolovedtheworld [people] that HegaveHis only Son. Whoever puts his trust in God’s Son will not be lost but will have life that lasts forever” (John 3:16, NLV). This truth also is shown in Luke 11:13. 

God gives and gives. He gives because He is kind and not selfish. So, we need to give too. We want to be as kind and unselfish as God is. After all, who ever heard of “a selfish Christian”? A true Christian is not! 

True Christians give back to God from the gifts God gives them. What is one way we give to God? We give Him our special gifts of money. These gifts give us a wonderful chance to show God our thanks and love. Now think about the day when Jesus welcomes us all into heaven. We will see many people there in heaven who were saved because of the gifts of money we gave to God. Our gifts made it possible for the Good News to be shared with these souls.They accepted the truth and will be in heaven because of the gifts we gave back to God to help spread the message. What a precious thought! 

This week, we will look at what it means to give. We can give our money, time, and talents to God. 