---
title:  “ ‘Where your treasure is’ ”
date:   25/02/2018
---

`Read Matthew 6:19–21. As we see in these verses, the treasures on this earth try to control our lives. How can we escape from their control?` 

“ ‘Your heart will be where [in the same place as] your riches are’ ” (Matthew 6:21, NIrV). In this verse, Jesus asks us to be wise with our money and the things we own. We can choose to save our treasures on earth. Or we can save our treasures in heaven. Jesus uses three words to talk about what can destroy our treasures on this earth. Those three words are “moths,” “rust,” and “thieves” (read Matthew 6:19, ICB). These three things show how the treasures on this earth last only a short time. We all have learned how quickly the things on this earth can be used up and disappear. “Everything on earth easily changes. Nothing seems certain or safe. Everything breaks down. Or it is destroyed, stolen, or lost. But heaven is very different. Everything in heaven lasts forever. Nothing there fades away. There is no loss in heaven.”—C. Adelina Alexe, “Where Your Heart Belongs,” in Beyond Blessings [God’s favor], edited by Nikolaus Satelmajer (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 2013), page 22, adapted. 

Think of everything you own. Maybe you do not own many things. But soon, most of your things will be thrown away. So, people who are wise managers for God will put their treasures in heaven. Nothing loses value there. Our treasures will be safe there too. We do not need to worry about thieves breaking into heaven to steal our things. 

In Matthew 6:19–21, we learn one of the most important ideas about being good managers of everything God gives us. Your treasure wants to control your heart. And your heart follows your treasure. So, where you put your treasure is very important. We must be careful not to fill our minds only with thoughts of what we need and what else we want. Those things make it harder for us to think about heaven. 

What if we say we believe in God, but we put our treasures on earth? Then we are not honest. What we do must match what we say. So, we must have the faith to believe that the gifts we give to God are saved as treasures in heaven (2 Corinthians 5:7). 

`As we see in Hebrews 10:34, what is the difference between treasure on earth and treasure in heaven?`