---
title:  Sharing God’s loving-favor with people
date:   26/02/2018
---

`As we see in Ephesians 2:8, what great gift has God given to us?` 

God’s great gift to us is grace. Grace is God’s loving-favor. We did nothing to earn this gift. We are not worthy of it. But God poured out His loving-favor on this planet. God’s loving-favor will change our lives forever. So, we must not reject this precious gift. God’s great gift to us includes all the riches and power of heaven (2 Corinthians 8:9). Even angels are surprised at this wonderful gift (1 Peter 1:12). 

God gives us many gifts. But the gift of His loving-favor is the best gift of all. Without the promise of God’s loving-favor, we would have no hope for our sins. Sin has awful power. Humans cannot ever hope to be free of the power of sin on their own. Our obeying God’s law cannot free us from sin or give us life. “Is the Law against the promise of God? No! Never! If it had been possible to be saved from the punishment of sin by obeying the Law, then being right with God would have come by [from] obeying the law” (Galatians 3:21, NLV). God’s law was perfect. But Paul says even God’s perfect law could not save us. Only God’s loving-favor can save us. 

`Read 1 Peter 4:10. What does caring wisely for God’s gifts to us have to do with His loving-favor? Also, explain how giving to God and to others shows His loving-favor.` 

Peter says that we must share with other people the gifts God gives to us. “God has given each of you a gift. Use it to help each other. This will show God’s loving-favor” (1 Peter 4:10, NLV). Yes, God gives us gifts. So, we need to give back to God and other people from the gifts God gives us. God gave us these gifts because of our faith in Him. God did not give them to us so that we could use them only for our own pleasure. Instead, God gave us these gifts to help spread the Good News about Jesus to other people. God gave His gifts to us because He wanted us to have them. So, we need to give to people in every way we can. Giving gifts to other people shows them God’s loving-favor. 

`Think about all of God’s gifts to you. How can you be a good manager of the loving-favor God gives to you?`