---
title:  Our best gift
date:   27/02/2018
---

`Read Luke 7:37–47. What does the story found in these verses teach us about the right reason for giving to God?` 

Luke says Mary entered the room and saw Jesus at the table. She opened her jar of expensive perfume. Then she poured it on His feet. People in the room thought what Mary did was wrong. What is worse, Mary was an awful sinner. 

But Jesus freed Mary from the demons that controlled her (Luke 8:2). Later, Jesus brought her brother Lazarus back to life from the dead. And Mary’s heart was filled with thanks to God. Mary’s perfume was worth more than anything else that she owned. Mary showed Jesus her thankfulness when she poured her perfume on Jesus’ feet. 

This story shows the reason why we should give our gifts to God. We should give because we are thankful to God for everything He does for us. We should feel thankful to God for giving us the precious gift of His loving-favor. God’s gift to us should cause us to want to give too. The gifts we give to God from grateful hearts make our gifts worth a lot in God’s eyes. These gifts include more than just our money. These gifts include our time, talents, skills, treasures, and our bodies. 

`Read Exodus 34:26; Leviticus 22:19–24; and Numbers 18:29. These verses talk about bringing gifts to God. Maybe we would not bring to God the gifts talked about in these verses. But what important rule can we learn from these verses about why we should bring our gifts to God?` 

Our best gifts may seem small in our eyes. But they are worth a lot in God’s eyes. We show we put God first in our lives when we give Him the best gifts we have. We do not give gifts to get God’s favor. Instead, we give gifts to God because we are thankful for the gift of Jesus. 

“We must bring God our gifts with grateful hearts. Then the smallest gifts we offer Him will be filled with the perfume of heaven. Those gifts will have more value than we ever will know. Look at all we owe God! All our gifts to God seem very small next to the gifts He gives us. Our gifts may seem very poor to us. But angels take these gifts to God, and God accepts them.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 3, page 397, adapted. 