---
title:  The true reasons for giving
date:   28/02/2018
---

Luke tells about the widow who gave a large gift to God (Luke 21:1–4).True, rich people gave more money than she did. But in God’s eyes the widow’s gift was big. It showed what was in her heart. Her gift caused Jesus to say, “ ‘This poor widow gave only two small coins. But she really gave more than all those rich people’ ” (Luke 21:3, ICB). 

Only God knows our true reasons for doing things (James 4:12; Proverbs 16:2; 1 Corinthians 4:5). We may do the right thing for the wrong reason. We do not need a lot of faith to give gifts when we already have many things from God. But what if we give when we do not have a lot of things to begin with? Then we show the love in our hearts. 

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:8–15.What does Paul say in these verses about giving and the reasons why we should give? What important rule can we learn from these verses about being wise managers over everything God gives us?` 

There are many different reasons for why we give. Some of these reasons are very selfish. Some of these reasons are because we want to help people. There is a fight going on inside us between selfishness and our desire to give. This spiritual war is fought in our hearts and minds more than any other spiritual fight. Selfishness will make a heart become cold after it was on fire for God. The problem starts when we let selfishness come into our lives. Then we try to find reasons to make our selfishness seem OK. 

But the true reasons for giving are found in one word: love. We cannot show love if we are not willing to say “No” to pleasing ourselves. Also, we must be willing to give to other people. Sometimes giving means we need to give up something we want so that we can help someone else. 

We must show God’s love in our lives. Then our giving will show His love. A selfish heart loves only self. So, we must ask God to help us to “ ‘obey the Lord’ ” and “ ‘not be strong-willed [stubborn] any more’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:16, NLV). Then we can love other people as God loves us. 

Love is the real reason for true giving and helping the poor. God’s love for us leads us to love Him back. 

`What is wrong with giving money to God because we feel a duty to give and not because we love Him?`