---
title:  The good that comes from giving
date:   01/03/2018
---

Jesus came to show us the love of God. So, we should understand clearly one thing by now: God loves us. He wants only the best for us. He asks us to do only what would be good for us. He never asks us to do anything that would hurt us. God asks us to be giving. He wants us to be happy givers. So, we should be happy when we bring Him our gifts of money. Then those gifts will bless us as much as they bless the people who get them. Only the people who give with a happy heart will know that giving is better than getting. 

`Read 2 Corinthians 9:6, 7. How do these verses show us what giving should be about?` 

Giving a large amount of money to God can and should be a very spiritual experience. Giving shows our faith. Our gifts show how thankful we are to God for everything He gives to us in Jesus. 

Giving causes our faith to grow stronger. The Bible tells us that “faith that does nothing is worth nothing” (James 2:20, ICB). So, we must show our faith by what we do. There is no better way to make our faith grow stronger. When we give, we show the love and kindness of God. Did you know that when you give, you also learn more about God? It is true! We experience the goodness of God when we give to people. So, giving builds our trust in God. Giving helps us to “examine and see how good the Lord is. Happy is the person who trusts the Lord” (Psalm 34:8, ICB). 

“The face of Jesus shines with great beauty. That great beauty comes from His unselfish love. The Cross shows us that the law of love is the law of life for heaven and earth. Love that does not try to please self starts in the heart of God. In Jesus, we see that love. That love comes from the Father.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 20, adapted. 

`In what ways has your faith grown from giving freely from all the things God gives you?`