---
title:  Additional thought
date:   02/03/2018
---

“God has an unselfish heart. But selfishness is the action of Satan. Jesus showed His love for us when He died on the cross. He gave everything He had to save us. Then He gave up His life. What happens when the followers of Jesus look at the cross? Then their hearts are filled with the desire to give, give. That is the law of the cross. We must follow this law in our lives by sharing and doing good works. These things show a true Christian life. The law that rules this earth is to get, get. The people who live only to get things feel that getting things will make them happy. But these people will experience only suffering and death.”—Ellen G. White, in Advent [Having to do with the Second Coming] Review [Magazine] and Sabbath Herald [Announcements], October 17, 1882, adapted. 

**Discussion questions** 

`Why is our selfishness very different from the unselfish heart of God? What are some things we can do to stop acting selfish?` 

`“Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give. You [should not] give if you [do not] want to. You [should not] give because you are [feel] forced to. God loves a cheerful giver” (2 Corinthians 9:7, NIrV). The Greek word written as “cheerful”appears only one time in the NewTestament.This Greek word also canmean“showingalot ofjoy.”Whatshouldthis meaningtell us about how we should feel when we give?` 

`Make a list of everything that Jesus gives us. What does this list teach you about why we should give? At the same time, what does this list teach us about how our very best gifts to God can seem so small next to the gifts God gives to us?` 

`Why is selfishness the best way to make yourself unhappy?` 

`Think of someone in your own church family who is in need. You may have to live without something you need so that you can help this person. But remember that Jesus gave up everything to save you. So, what can you do right now to help this person?` 