---
title:  The Unity of the Spirit
date:  06/08/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 4:1–16. How does Paul encourage believers to nurture the unity of the church?`

Paul begins the second half of Ephesians (chapters 4–6) with a stirring call to unity, but in two major parts. First, in Ephesians 4:1–6 he asks believers to nurture “the unity of the Spirit” by exhibiting unity-building virtues (Eph. 4:1–3), a call he supports with a poetic list of seven “ones” (Eph. 4:4–6). Second, in Ephesians 4:7–16, Paul identifies the victorious, exalted Jesus as the Source of grace in people who lead in sharing the gospel (Eph. 4:7–10) and describes how they, together with all church members, contribute to the health, growth, and unity of the body of Christ (Eph. 4:11–16).

As the chapter begins, Paul invites Christians to “walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called” (Eph. 4:1, ESV). He used the verb _walk_ in the figurative sense of _to behave_, or _to live_ (see Eph. 2:2, 10; Eph. 4:17; Eph. 5:2, 8, 15). When Paul refers to their calling, he refers to the call to Christian faith (Eph. 1:18; Eph. 2:4–6, 13). Paul urges believers to practice a unifying behavior that reflects God’s ultimate plan (Eph. 4:9, 10). He begins that emphasis here with his call to practice virtues that lead to unity (Eph. 4:1–3), such as humility, gentleness, and patience.

Let’s look at each term.

Paul elsewhere explains the term humility, in Ephesians 4:2 (ESV; “lowliness” in NKJV), by adding the idea to “count others more significant than yourselves” (Phil. 2:3, ESV). Humility, then, may be understood not as a negative virtue of self-deprecation (see Col. 2:18, 23) but as a positive one of appreciating and serving others.

Gentleness (Eph. 4:2, ESV, NKJV) may be explained as “the quality of not being overly impressed by a sense of one’s self-importance” and also means “courtesy, considerateness, meekness.”—Frederick Danker, ed., _Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature_, 3rd ed. (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000), p. 861.

Finally, patience (ESV; compare “longsuffering,” NKJV) is being able to bear up under provocation or trials. These qualities, then, all gather around the theme of turning away from self-importance and, instead, focusing on the value of others.

`Humility, gentleness, patience. Think about how these attributes would help unify us as a people. How do we learn to cultivate these virtues?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul urges the Ephesians to preserve unity and love: “I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love; endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.” . . .\
By meekness and gentleness, forbearance and love, they were to exemplify the character of Christ and the blessings of His salvation. There is but one body, and one Spirit, one Lord, one faith. As members of the body of Christ all believers are animated by the same spirit and the same hope. Divisions in the church dishonor the religion of Christ before the world and give occasion to the enemies of truth to justify their course. Paul’s instructions were not written alone for the church in his day. God designed that they should be sent down to us. What are we doing to preserve unity in the bonds of peace?—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 239.

A union of believers with Christ will as a natural result lead to a union with one another, which bond of union is the most enduring upon earth. We are one in Christ, as Christ is one with the Father. It is only by personal union with Christ, by communion with Him daily, hourly, that we can bear the fruits of the Holy Spirit. . . .\
The vine has many branches, but though all the branches are different, they do not quarrel. In diversity there is unity. All the branches obtain their nourishment from one source. This is an illustration of the unity that is to exist among Christ’s followers. In their different lines of work they all have but one Head. The same Spirit, in different ways, works through them. There is harmonious action, though the gifts differ.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 211.

Many of those who profess to love the Saviour neglect to love those who are united with them in Christian fellowship. . . .\
It is not the opposition of the world that endangers us the most; it is the evil cherished in the hearts of professed believers that works our most grievous disaster and most retards the progress of God’s cause. There is no surer way of weakening our spirituality than by being envious, suspicious of one an other, full of faultfinding and evil surmising. . . .\
Harmony and union existing among men of varied dispositions is the strongest witness that can be borne that God has sent His Son into the world to save sinners. It is our privilege to bear this witness. But, in order to do this, we must place ourselves under Christ’s command.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8, p. 242.