---
title:  Making God Happy
date:   11/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

Luke 15:11–32; Zephaniah 3:17; Ephesians 5:25–28; Isaiah 43:4; Romans 8:1; Mark 9:17–29.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord your God is with you, a Powerful One Who wins the battle. He will have much joy over you. With His love He will give you new life. He will have joy over you with loud singing” (Zephaniah 3:17, NLV).

Imagine in your mind this scene: On Father’s Day, a five-year-old child comes to his dad with a gift wrapped in a messy way. The boy is very excited as he gives the gift to his dad.

Imagine the father says, “Son, I don’t like your gift. You can’t give me anything that will please me. Anything you can give me, I can get for myself. Anything you give to me was bought with my money or made from materials that I paid for. So, keep your gift. I don’t need it or want it. But I love you anyway.”

Ouch!

What do you think about this father’s words? Maybe the words “mean,” “nasty,” or “cold” come to your mind. Is this the way God feels about us and our gifts? Can we really make God happy? Yes, the good news is that we can make God happy! We may be sinners who want to do evil. But God doesn’t look on us, or the gifts we bring Him, in the way that the father in the story looked on his five-year-old son. So, if we can make God happy, then how do we do that? We need Jesus’ help. We can’t please God on our own. But with Jesus’ help we can be pleasing to God, for sure.