---
title:  More Valuable Than You Can Imagine
date:   12/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw in last week’s lesson, God loves everyone, including the worst sinner. God values people more than we can possibly imagine in our minds. But God hates sin. God loves us and knows what sin does to us.

`Read the picture story in Luke 15:11–32. What does this story about the lost son teach us about God’s mercy and love? What warning does this story give to church members who stay “at home” (in the church), as the older son does?`

Jesus tells a picture story about a younger son who asks his father to give him the gift of money that he will get when his father dies. When the young man asks for this gift before his father dies, he rejects his father and his family. The lost son then goes on to spend all his money until he is poor and hungry. The lost son feels jealous of the pigs because they have more to eat than he does. The son knows that the servants in his father’s house have more than enough food. So, the son decides to go back home in hopes of becoming a servant.

What happens next in the picture story is powerful. Some fathers would not accept this son when he came home. They may say, “You took the money I gave you and cut yourself off from my family. You no longer have a home here.” We would understand completely if a father said these words to a lost son who came back home after doing the awful things he did. In the eyes of some parents, the son went too far to be accepted back home as a son anymore.

But in the picture story, the father (who is a word picture for God) doesn’t say these words. Jesus says, “ ‘The son got up and went to his father. While he was yet a long way off, his father saw him. The father was full of [filled with] loving-pity for him. He ran and threw his arms around him and kissed him’ ” (Luke 15:20, NLV). In those days, the master of the house didn’t run out of his house to meet anyone. But the father’s heart was filled with so much love and mercy. So, he ran out to meet his son. More important, the father welcomed his son back into the family again. The father held a big party to celebrate His son’s coming home. This celebration shows the love and mercy God feels for each person who leaves Him and then comes back to Him. This story shows us an amazing and wonderful picture of God!