---
title:  Rejoicing With A Happy Heart
date:   13/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Every person who ever lived is very valuable to God. That’s why God rejoices when one person is saved.

`Read Zephaniah 3:17. How does this verse help us better understand the picture story of the lost son (Luke 15:11–32)?`

Zephaniah 3:17 shows us that God rejoices when His people are saved. In this single verse, Zephaniah uses almost every word for “joy” and “delight” in the Hebrew language. It’s as if no one word by itself can show us God’s full delight on the day when one person is saved.

Look at where God is, as this verse tells us. God is “with” His people. In the same way, when the father in the picture story saw his son far off, he ran to him. When God is among His people, His people can come back to Him.

Isaiah 62:4 uses the word picture of marriage to teach the same idea about God. In Isaiah 62:4, God’s people will be named “The People God Loves” (ERV). This name means that God delights in His people. God will name the land “God’s Bride” (ERV), which means “married.” Why does God name the land “God’s Bride”? Because, the verse says, “the Lord loves you. And your land will belong to him as a bride belongs to her husband” (ICB). God will feel the most joy for the time when He gets to be with His people forever. Then He will rejoice over us as the father rejoiced over his lost son in Jesus’ picture story in Luke 15:11–32.

`Read Ephesians 5:25–28. What do these verses say about the love God asks us to show in marriage?`

These verses tell husbands to love their wives. “Husbands, love your wives. You must love them as Christ [Jesus] loved the church” (Ephesians 5:25, NLV). And how did Jesus show His love for His church? “He gave His life for it” (verse 25, NLV). So, “husbands should love their wives in the same way. They should love their wives as they love their own bodies” (verse 28, ICB). These verses help us to understand the love that a husband should have for his wife. A husband’s love should not be selfish. He must be willing to give up whatever is necessary to love and protect her. In the same way, these verses show us that Jesus loves His people, the church, as part of Himself.