---
title:  Pleasing God?
date:   14/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Why does a mighty God feel so much delight for the people who live on our small planet? Why do we matter so much to an all-powerful God who doesn’t need anything? To help us answer these questions, we can break them down into two new questions. First, what delights God? Second, how can people, who are sinners, delight Him? We shall answer the first of these two new questions today. Tomorrow, we shall look at the other question: Why do we matter to God?

`Read Isaiah 43:4; Psalm 149:4; and Proverbs 15:8, 9. What do these verses tell us about God and the delight He feels for His people?`

As we saw yesterday, God can be happy with people because He loves them. He cares about them and wants the best for them.

At the same time, God is not happy when His people do evil. Proverbs 15:8, 9 teaches that God is happy with the prayers of the ones who obey Him. But God is not happy with the offerings and the lives of people who break His law. These verses show us that God isn’t happy with evil. The verses also show us that God delights in good and loving people. In these verses, we also see the connection between God’s delight and His love. We see this same idea all through the Bible, too.

Psalm 146:8 says, “The Lord loves those who are right [forgiven and accepted with God] and good [holy]” (NLV). 2 Corinthians 9:7 adds, “God loves those [people] who are happy to give” (ERV). Notice what these verses don’t say. The verses don’t say that God loves only people who are good or holy, and no one else. The verses don’t say that God loves only the people who are happy to give. God loves everyone. At the same time, these verses must mean that God loves holy people and people who are happy to give in some special way. What we saw in Proverbs 15:8, 9 gives us a hint: God loves these people and others who love Him because He is happy with them.

`God cares for us so very much. This Bible truth tells us that heaven and earth must be closely connected. What hope does this amazing thought give you? How can this thought fill you with hope when you are going through a very hard time?`