---
title:  Living Stones
date:   15/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We are sinners. So, how can a holy God accept us?

`Read Romans 8:1 and Romans 5:8. What do these verses teach us about God?`

God offers us His mercy before we accept it. Before we say or do anything, God gives us the choice to accept or reject His love. As Romans 5:8 puts it, “God shows his love for us in this way: Christ died to save us while we were bad people [sinners]” (WE; compare with Jeremiah 31:3). When we have faith in Jesus’ saving power, God will accept us and be happy with us.

`Read 1 Peter 2:4–6 and compare it with Hebrews 11:6. What do these verses tell us about how we may make God happy?`

Without God’s help, sinners can’t make God happy. But God in His mercy and love made a way to save us. That way is through Jesus. When you “give sacrifices [offerings] to God from your heart” then “God will accept them because of Jesus Christ” and everything He did and does for us (1 Peter 2:5, WE). For sure, we can’t make God happy without faith (Hebrews 11:6). Paul tells us that the “God of peace will give you every good thing you need so that you can do what he wants. . . . I pray that God will work through [with] Jesus Christ to do the things in us that please him. To him be glory forever. Amen” (Hebrews 13:20, 21, ERV). When we answer God in faith, God accepts us because of Jesus. Jesus’ holy life is the only holy life that God accepts. Jesus’ work for us makes us worthy in God’s eyes. Jesus changes us to become holy and loving (1 Corinthians 15:51–57; 1 John 3:2). God’s holy work is not only for us, but He works in us, too.

`Jesus is working right now in heaven to save you. Why does this idea give you so much hope?`