---
title:  Important Advice
date:   16/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God is happy with us when we accept His love. God is the only Person who is worthy of love. God is perfect and holy. He will accept us as holy and worthy of love when we believe in Jesus. Then we become God’s children who will live with Him in perfect love forever. This promise is ours when we have faith in Jesus’ work for us in heaven.

“But,” you may wonder, “can this promise include me? What if I feel I’m not good enough or don’t have enough faith?”

`Read the story in Mark 9:17–29. How does God answer the man in the story? How much faith is enough faith?`

Jesus’ followers couldn’t cause the demon to come out of the boy. Everyone in the story started to lose hope. But then Jesus came. He told the father, “ ‘Everything is possible for the one who believes’ ” (Mark 9:23, NIrV). Then “the father cried out, ‘I do believe. Help me to believe more!’ ” (Mark 9:24, ERV).

Do you see that Jesus doesn’t say to the man, “Come back to Me when you have more faith”? The man’s cry, “ ‘Help me to believe more!’ ” was enough for Jesus.

Without faith, we can’t make God happy (Hebrews 11:6). At the same time, Jesus accepts the smallest faith. When we have faith in Jesus’ saving work for us, we can make God happy. Faith in Jesus helps us to answer God in ways that God accepts. Then God will be happy with us in the same way a human father is happy when his beloved child brings him a sweet gift that isn’t valuable.

We should follow Paul’s advice to “always please the Lord” (2 Corinthians 5:9, ERV; also read verse 10. Compare with Colossians 1:10; 1 Thessalonians 4:1; and Hebrews 11:5). We should ask God to help us care more about the needs of other people: “Love each other in a way that makes you feel close [in your hearts] like [the same as] brothers and sisters. And give each other more honor than you give yourself. As you serve the Lord, work hard and don’t be lazy. Be excited about serving him! Be happy because of the hope you have. Be patient when you have troubles. Pray all the time. Share with God’s people who need help. Look for people who need help and welcome them into your homes” (Romans 12:10–13, ERV).