---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,’ ” pages 662–680, in The Desire of Ages.

“The Lord is sad when His people don’t think they are worth much. The Lord wants His chosen people to know that they are valuable because of the price He paid to save them. God wanted them. That’s why He sent His Son on an expensive journey to save them. God has a use for His people. God is happy when people ask Him to do big things so that His name will be honored. God’s people may expect God to do big things if they believe His promises.

“To pray in Jesus’ name means much. To pray in His name means that we accept His holy life and love. We also must show His spirit and do the things He did. The Savior’s promise contains the word ‘if.’ The word ‘if’ tells us that Jesus expects us to obey Him: ‘If you love me, you will do the things I command.’ [John 14:15, ICB]. Jesus saves people, but not in their sins. Jesus saves people from sin. When we love Jesus, we will obey Him. Our obedience shows Jesus that we love Him.

“All real obedience comes from the heart. Jesus obeyed God from the heart. If we give Jesus permission, He will help us to live the way He lived, thought, and worked. His thoughts will become our thoughts. His wishes will become our wishes. Then we will naturally do the things that please Him. Our biggest joy will come from serving Jesus. When we know God as we should know Him, we will obey God always. When we talk with God, we will know and understand Jesus better and who He is. Then we will hate sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 668, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the connection between giving and getting? How will giving and getting be different for us in heaven and on the new earth?`

`Daniel was God’s special messenger. Angels said that Daniel was “chamudot.” In the Hebrew language, “chamudot” means “beloved” or “precious.” The angels said Daniel was “chamudot” three times (read Daniel 9:23; Daniel 10:11; Daniel 10:19). What do God’s words about Daniel tell us about God and how much He loves us? What hope does this amazing Bible truth give you?`