---
title: 'New Frontiers'
date: 28/09/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Genesis 15

**New Frontiers**

In a world filled with uncertainty—economic instability, political division, and personal challenges—we often find ourselves paralyzed at the threshold of important decisions. Do we step forward in faith or retreat to what feels safe? The book of Joshua speaks directly to our lives and gives us an example of pressing forward in faith despite unresolved questions and overwhelming challenges.

Joshua’s generation came to a pivotal moment in Israel’s history when they had to decide if they were ready to move forward in faith, face the giants, and enter unfamiliar territory. The unknowns were overwhelming, the opposition fierce, the challenges intimidating. Everything hinged on their willingness to embrace the seemingly impossible assignment God had given them. The history in this book invites every believer today to conquer their doubts and fears and receive the blessings God offers.

After forty wearisome years of wandering in the wilderness, Israel was finally on the verge of receiving the inheritance promised to Abraham more than four centuries before. Abraham exercised faith in looking forward to the promise, and Joshua was the instrument God used to make that promise a reality. To properly understand the book of Joshua, it’s essential to first understand how God’s covenant with Abraham came to be.

When God called Abraham to exchange familiarity and comfort for an adventure with Him, Abraham was already seventy-five years old. Without stopping to question the feasibility of leaving his homeland, Abraham followed God into unfamiliar territory. God declared that through Abraham and his descendants, He would fulfill a promise dear to the hearts of all those who loved and served Him. Back in the Garden of Eden, God had announced a plan to save sinful humanity by sending a Deliverer who crush the head of the serpent (Gen. 3:15). Generation after generation had waited for the promised Seed (Descendent) to arrive. God renewed this promise when He appeared to Abraham and called him to be the progenitor of the promised One.

God was not simply offering Abraham a spot in the Messiah’s ancestral lineage. His plan was grander than that. The covenant came with land—a fertile strip of prime real estate located at the intersection of three major continents: Africa, Asia, and Europe. The promise of numerous children and a strategically located, fertile territory meant Abraham would have an extraordinary legacy. Abraham would not only be one of the Messiah’s direct ancestors but would also sire an entire nation whose sole purpose would be to prepare the world for the Messiah’s arrival and then facilitate the spread of His kingdom when He appeared. In short, God promised to place Abraham and his descendants in a position to change the world. However, as Abraham accepted the calling and pitched his tents in the land of Canaan, there was one major thing he had yet to understand: accepting God’s call to change the world meant allowing Him to develop His plans in His time, in His way, and according to His will. Abraham had to learn this lesson gradually, repeatedly, and painfully.

Abraham’s story contextualizes the book of Joshua by offering us a glimpse into the requirements that ensure spiritual success. Abraham had to learn essential lessons of absolute surrender and total trust. These same characteristics gave Joshua and the Israelites success in their conquest of Canaan. If we want to embrace the legacy God offers us, we need to rethink many of our long-held paradigms and assumptions and allow God to lead in unexpected ways. God has a significant calling for each of us. God’s calling today requires no less surrender and trust than Abraham and Joshua cultivated. If we are willing to follow God’s plan, God is more than willing to use us to do great things for Him.

### inScribe

_Write out Genesis 15:12–16 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Genesis 15._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `