---
title: 'God’s Covenant with Abraham'
date: 29/09/2025
---

### inGest

Abraham left his home “not knowing where he was going” (Heb. 11:8). He first realized things wouldn’t follow a direct path when famine hit, forcing him to flee to Egypt, where he lied to protect himself and had to be rescued by God. Despite this inauspicious start to his grand adventure, he picked himself up and continued to build his life around a relationship with God. As the years passed, Abraham’s faith was tested repeatedly. Neither he nor his wife Sarah were getting any younger, and they still had no children even though God had promised that his family would become an entire nation (Gen. 12:2). Adjusting to God’s timeline is often harder than believing He’s able to keep His promises. Faith requires belief, but it also requires patience and surrender.

After rescuing his nephew Lot from a dangerous hostage situation, Abraham returned home plagued by doubt and anxiety. As sweet as victory was, Abraham worried about the repercussions of his actions. God reached out to calm Abraham’s fears through a vision. “Do not be afraid,” He said. “I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward” (Gen. 15:1). Despite the assurance, Abraham still wondered why God had not given him a son. “LORD GOD, what will you give me, seeing I go childless?” he asked (v. 2). It was a plea for tangible evidence that God’s promise was genuine. God assured Abraham that he would have a child of his own. Regardless of appearances, Abraham chose to believe that promise, “and He accounted it to him for righteousness” (v. 6). Abraham exercised his faith by believing that God could do what He had promised (Rom. 4:20–22). It was that simple, but also that challenging.

Then, beneath a canopy of stars, God established His covenant with Abraham through a solemn ceremony (Gen. 15:9–21). Whereas many cultures today formalize legal agreements by placing personal signatures on written contracts, ancient Mediterranean cultures often formalized covenants and treaties with the blood of a sacrifice. An animal’s dead body was a fitting symbol of what might happen to either party should they break their side of the promise. This sacrificial ceremony was God’s pledge that He would not forget or neglect any of the promises He had made to Abraham. God assured Abraham that his descendants would be as innumerable as the stars of the night and that He would give them land between the Mediterranean Sea and the Euphrates River. God called Abraham’s family to a special destiny. God would plant them in this place to be a blessing to the whole world.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`What paradigm shift did Abraham need in order to align himself with God’s purposes?`

`When have you had to adjust to God’s timeline?`