---
title: 'The Inhabitants of Canaan'
date: 30/09/2025
---

### inTerpret

If God’s only purpose had been to find a homeland for Abraham’s descendants, He could have given them unoccupied land. Instead, God chose to give them land in which several different people groups already dwelled, knowing that receiving that land would necessitate many conflicts with those peoples. It’s important to note that God was not careless or unmindful of the nations who had claimed the land. If God hadn’t cared for those nations, He could’ve immediately cast them out and given Abraham’s family the territory. Instead, God delayed the conquest of Canaan for over four hundred years, continually showing the nations His mercy despite their increasing wickedness. God told Abraham that his family would be fugitives in a foreign land and could not return to Canaan for several more generations because “the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete” (Gen. 15:16). In other words, God was carefully measuring the wickedness of these nations and would give the land of Canaan to Abraham’s descendants only when these nations passed the point of no return. Joshua’s conquest of Canaan should be understood as a judgment from God against nations guilty of the worst crimes. The people of Canaan normalized and promoted pagan rituals that involved various forms of sexual promiscuity, incest, homosexuality, child sacrifice, and bestiality (Lev. 18:6–23). Child sacrifice was a common religious ritual in which they burned their children as sacrifices to demons (Ps. 106:37). These practices were mingled with witchcraft, communication with the dead, and other spiritualistic practices, which pulled them into deeper darkness and iniquity (Deut. 18:9–14). Because of these abominations, God was casting out the inhabitants of the land and warning the Israelites not to follow their example lest God judge them also (Lev. 18:24–30). God would use Israel as an instrument of judgment against the nations that had become hardened in wickedness.

When God told Abraham his family could not yet inherit the promised land, He framed the conquest of Canaan as a judgment against wicked people, comparable to the stories of the Flood and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah (Gen. 6:11–13; 19:13). Before God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham asked God the very question that many of us today ask about these difficult moments of divine judgment: “Would You also destroy the righteous with the wicked?” (18:23). Abraham wanted reassurance that God would not indiscriminately destroy the innocent along with the guilty: “Far be it from You! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?” (v. 25). As Abraham engaged in this dialogue with God, he chose to trust that God would be careful to do right in every case. That is the same decision that is left with each of us. Do we trust God to properly exercise justice and mercy?

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How much do you trust God’s justice, even if it’s delayed or doesn’t make sense to you?`

_Memorize your favorite verse from Genesis 15. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._