---
title: 'The Promised Son'
date: 02/10/2025
---

### inVite

When Abraham was ninety-nine years old, God appeared to him again, saying, “I am Almighty God; walk before Me and be blameless. And I will make My covenant between Me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly” (Gen. 17:1, 2). Abraham had settled by that time. After nearly twenty-five years in Canaan, he was still a sojourner, but at least he had an heir: his son Ishmael, his own flesh and blood, his desperate attempt to help God keep His promises. After reiterating the terms of the covenant and establishing the rite of circumcision as a sign of consecration, God told Abraham that his wife Sarah would give birth to a son even though she was ninety years old (vv. 15, 16). Abraham’s response was to fall on his face, laughing, and remind God that he already had a son, Ishmael (vv. 17, 18). Patiently, mercifully, God informed Abraham that He was not mistaken. Sarah would indeed have a son in her old age—a miracle child. Isaac’s birth demonstrates God’s ability to keep His promises regardless of the circumstances.

Isaac grew into a young man, and God tested Abraham’s faith yet again. Appearing to Abraham in a vision, God requested the ultimate sacrifice: “Take now your son,” He said, “your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you” (22:2). All of Abraham’s hopes centered on his promised son, Isaac. God Himself had stated that Isaac was an integral part of the covenant, but then He required Abraham to surrender that which he treasured most. Abraham obeyed, believing that, if necessary, God would raise Isaac from the dead to keep His promises (Heb. 11:17–19). God rewarded Abraham’s faith. He not only spared Isaac but also provided a ram to sacrifice as a substitute, which Abraham discovered in a nearby thicket.

The ram God provided symbolized the culmination of the covenant. All the promises made to Abraham, including a son, the land of Canaan, and national greatness, converged on a single event: the Messiah, God’s only Son, sacrificed for the sins of the world. The purpose of God’s covenant with Abraham was to prepare the people and the place for when the Lamb of God would be introduced to the world (see John 1:29). Presenting Jesus to the world is still the purpose of God’s covenant and calling for each of us. If, like Abraham, we trust God and embrace His promises, God can do great things through us, too.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`How has your faith been tested? What lessons did you learn?`