---
title: inQuire
date: 04/10/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**God’s promises to Abraham:**

1. What promises did God make to Abraham, and what was God’s purpose for Abraham? _Compare Gen. 15:12–16 with Gen. 12:1–9, 17:1–22, and 22:15–18 and notice the various elements of God’s promise of children and land._
2. Why didn’t God give the land of Canaan to Abraham’s descendants sooner? What does this say about His longsuffering nature? _Read Gen. 15:12–16._
3. What were some Canaanite practices that called for divine accountability? Why is justice sometimes the most merciful response? _See Lev. 18:6–30; Deut. 9:4–6; and Ps. 106:36–38._
4. In what ways has God called you out of your comfort zone?

**Abraham trusts God:**

1. What lessons can you learn from Abraham about how to face your fears and an uncertain future? _Read Gen. 15:1–6 in light of Abraham’s safety concerns that arose in the story of Gen. 14._
2. In what ways did Abraham have to adjust his plans and his timeline to God’s? After Abraham had a son through Hagar, he had to accept that God had other plans. _See Gen. 17:15–19._

`Personal reflection: How did God continue to stretch Abraham’s faith? How has your faith been stretched?`

**Joshua and Abraham:**

1. Why is Abraham’s history so important for understanding the book of Joshua? _Compare Josh. 1:1–4 and Gen. 15:12–16 and see how the story of Joshua is a fulfillment of the promises made to Abraham._
2. What do you think God’s promises to Abraham might have meant to Joshua? How might they have encouraged him in the conquest of Canaan?
3. Why was Canaan the ideal location for introducing the Messiah to the world? _Look at a world map and see how Israel is located at the intersection of three continents (Africa, Europe, and Asia). It was the ideal place for God’s people to be a light to the world._

`Personal reflection: Which part of Abraham’s story can you relate to the most? How can understanding God’s leading in Abraham’s life help you navigate any uncertainties you’re facing?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- God is longsuffering with the wicked.
- We can trust God’s promises even when there is delay.
- Remembering God’s promises in the past will give us courage to do great things.