---
title:  The Spirit and the Word
date:   31/12/2016
---

### The Spirit and the Word

### Read for This Week’s Study:
2 Pet. 1:19–21, 1 Cor. 2:9–13, Ps. 119:160, John 17:17.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work” (2 Timothy 3:16, 17, NKJV). 

The Bible says the following about itself: “All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work” (2 Tim. 3:16, 17, NKJV). Scripture fulfills this role because it is the Word of God, revealed to humanity through the work of the Holy Spirit. In the Bible the Holy Spirit reveals God’s will to us, showing us how to live a life pleasing to Him. 

But the Holy Spirit was operational not only in the distant past, in the origin of the Bible. He is involved with the Word of God in many other important ways even today. And perhaps the most important is our reading the Word and desiring to understand it properly. This is when we need the Holy Spirit. This same divine Spirit awakens in us the desire to embrace the Word of God and to apply its teaching to our lives. Thus, the Spirit works with and through the Written Word to transform us into new creatures in Christ.

This week we will trace the work of the Holy Spirit as it relates to the Scriptures.