---
title:  The Holy Spirit and Inspiration
date:   02/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit and Inspiration

Inspiration is the term used to describe God’s influence through the work of the Holy Spirit in transmitting His message through human instruments. The work of the Holy Spirit in the process of inspiration is the reason we find a fundamental unity in all of Scripture in regard to truth. As the Spirit of Truth (John 14:17, 15:26, 16:13), the Holy Spirit will lead us into all truth. 

`Read 2 Peter 1:21, Deuteronomy 18:18, Micah 3:8, and 1 Corinthians 2:9–13. What do these texts tell us about the biblical writers and about God’s involvement in the origin of the Bible?`

Being “carried along by the Holy Spirit” (2 Pet. 1:21, NIV) is a strong affirmation of the work of the Holy Spirit in inspiration. In 1 Corinthians 2:9–13, the apostle Paul credits revelation and inspiration to the Holy Spirit. To us, he says, God revealed the hidden things that no eye has seen, which he mentions in verse 9. God revealed them through the Spirit (1 Cor. 2:10). The apostles have received this “Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things freely given to us by God” (1 Cor. 2:12, NASB). Then in verse 13 he moves to the work of inspiration, where he speaks of things “not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words” (NASB). Paul had no doubt about the source and the authority of what he was proclaiming. 

While many parts of the Bible are a result of God’s direct supernatural revelation, not everything in the Bible was revealed in that manner. Sometimes God used biblical writers in their careful personal investigation of things or in their use of other existing documents (Josh. 10:13, Luke 1:1–3) to reveal and communicate His message. Thus, all parts of the Bible are revealed and inspired (2 Tim. 3:16). This is the reason Paul states that “whatever” was written was written for our instruction, so that through “the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope” (Rom. 15:4, NASB). The God who speaks and who created human language enables chosen people to communicate in human words the inspired thoughts in a trustworthy and reliable manner. 

“God has been pleased to communicate His truth to the world by human agencies, and He Himself, by His Holy Spirit, qualified men and enabled them to do His work. He guided the mind in the selection of what to speak and what to write. The treasure was entrusted to earthen vessels, yet it is, nonetheless, from Heaven.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, p. 26.