---
title:  The Holy Spirit as Teacher
date:   04/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit as Teacher

The Holy Spirit is instrumental, not only in giving us the Written Word of God but also in helping us understand it properly. Human beings are darkened in their understanding of truth; they are, by nature, alienated from God (Eph. 4:18). That’s why the same Spirit who revealed and inspired the Word of God is the One who enables us to understand it. The problem is not that the Bible is an obscure book. The problem is our sin-tainted attitude toward God, who reveals Himself in the Bible. 

The Holy Spirit is a Teacher who desires to lead us into a deeper understanding of Scripture and to a joyful appreciation of the Bible. He brings the truth of God’s Word to our attention and gives us fresh insights into those truths so that our lives can be characterized by faithfulness and a loving obedience to God’s will. This can happen, though, only if we approach the Bible with a humble and teachable heart. 

`Read 1 Corinthians 2:13, 14. What does the apostle Paul write about our need to interpret spiritual things spiritually?` 

In our understanding of the Bible, we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit. Without the Holy Spirit, the spiritual significance of the biblical words is not discerned, only its linguistic meaning. Furthermore, as sinful human beings we often are opposed to God’s truth, not because we do not understand it but because we would prefer not to follow it. Without the Holy Spirit there is no affection for God’s message. There is no hope, no trust, and no love in response. What the Spirit brings to life is in harmony with the truth already proclaimed in the Bible.

`“Many contradictory opinions in regard to what the Bible teaches do not arise from any obscurity in the book itself, but from blindness and prejudice on the part of interpreters. Men ignore the plain statements of the Bible to follow their own perverted reason.” —Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, January 27, 1885. How has your pride been a stumbling stone that has hindered you from implementing the truth of Scripture in your life? In what areas do your own desires keep you from accepting God’s truth in your life? How can you learn to surrender everything to God?`	