---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   16/12/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 10; 11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> VERSE: “Do not act like [the same as] the sinful [wicked] people of the world [earth]. Let God change your life. First of all, let Him give you a new mind. Then you will know what God wants you to do. And the things you do will be good and pleasing and perfect” (Romans 12:2, NLV).

Paul's first purpose in the book of Romans is to correct the wrong ideas the Roman Christians have about the law. Paul also tells all Christians to live obedient lives. Obedience comes from a change in our hearts and minds. This change comes only from the power of God working in everyone who surrenders his or her life to God.

The book of Romans never says that obedience is somehow easy. Christians need to be taught how to obey. Christians must also want to obey God’s wishes for their lives. Finally, Christians should ask God for the power to help them obey. God’s power makes our obedience possible.

Paul tells us that our doing good works is part of the Christian faith. Paul never meant to put good works down. In fact, in chapters 12 to 15, Paul puts a lot of importance on good works. Paul’s words about obedience do not go against the things he said earlier about our being made right with God by faith. When we do good works, we show to other people the meaning of living by faith. New Testament believers were given an Example of correct behavior. That Example was Jesus. Jesus and no one else is the Example we must follow (Philippians 2:5). There is no better example than Jesus!
