---
title:  The Gift That Makes God Happy
date:   17/12/2017
---

Chapter 11 was the last chapter in the book of Romans to deal with church teachings. In chapters 12–16, Paul gives us useful and helpful lessons for everyday life. These lessons show us how to live the life of faith.

To start with, faith does not take the place of obedience. Faith does not mean that we no longer need to obey the Lord. The law continues to have power in our lives. The New Testament explains the law some more and makes the law easier to understand. But the New Testament never says that living by these rules will be easy for the Christian to do. In fact, we are told that, at times, following the law might be very hard to do. Why? Because the war with self and with sin is always hard (1 Peter 4:1). But God promises the Christian power over sin. What happens if we fall? Then Jesus lives to save us (Hebrews 7:25).

`Read Romans 12:1. In this verse, Paul shows us how two different things—the body and gifts—are the same. How does this example teach us to live as Christians? How does Romans 12:2 help explain this idea more?`

In Romans 12:1, Paul hints at the animals brought as payment for sin in the Old Testament plan of worship. In the same way, Christians should now give their bodies to God. We are to give God our bodies as living gifts to serve Him.

During the time that Israel spent in the wilderness, every animal the Israelities brought to God as a payment for sin was examined carefully. What if something was wrong with the animal? Then that animal was rejected. God said that the gifts brought to Him were not to have anything wrong with them. In the same way, Christians should “let your bodies be a living and holy gift given to God” (Romans 12:1, NLV). We can offer this gift only if we make sure our bodies are as healthy as possible. True, we all have things wrong with us. But the important idea here is that we must live holy and loyal lives by God’s power.

`The Christian life does not mean we do not improve. Instead, the Christian life means we move from good things to better things.”—Martin Luther, *Commentary [Explanation] on Romans*, pages 167, 168, adapted. What does it mean that we move from good things to better things in our Christian lives?`
