---
title:  Thinking The Right Way
date:   18/12/2017
---

We spent a lot of time this quarter talking about how God’s law lasts forever. We also pointed out again and again that Paul’s message does not teach that faith has somehow put an end to the Ten Commandments.  

But it is easy to get so caught up in obeying the law that we forget that God’s law comes from His love. So, we show love when we obey the law. And to obey the law means to show love for God and love for one another. Anyone can say that he or she loves. But it is not always easy for us to show our love everyday to the people in our lives, is it?

`In Romans 12:3–21, Paul talks about showing love to other people. How does Paul say we should do that?`

In 1 Corinthians 12 and 13, Paul talks about love. For Paul, love is “the best way of all” (1 Corinthians 12:31, NIrV). John agrees. John says, “God is love” (1 John 4:8, NIrV). From this verse, we can see that love tells about God. When we love other people, we show them the love that God shows us.

In Romans 12:3–21, Paul teaches us how we can show love in everyday life. First, Paul points to the importance of our not being proud. “I ask each one of you not to think more of himself than he should think” (Romans 12:3, NLV). Next, Paul says believers should be willing to “honor others more than yourselves” (Romans 12:10, NIrV). Paul warns each believer to “keep [stop] yourself from thinking you are so wise” (Romans 12:16, NLV). Jesus’ own words explain the meaning of Paul’s advice: “Follow My teachings and learn from me. I am gentle and do not have pride [feeling more important or better than other people]” (Matthew 11:29, NLV)

Christians should be less proud than anyone. After all, look at how helpless we are and how far we have fallen into sin. Look at how much we need to depend on Jesus to be made right with God and to save us. Without Jesus, we cannot change our ways or ourselves. So, what have we done that is worth bragging about? Nothing! We must live without pride before God and other people.

`Read Romans 12:18. Are you following this warning in your life right now? If you are not, then what might you need to change so that you can follow it?`
