---
title:  Christians and the Government
date:   19/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 13:1–7. What important rules does Paul give us in these verses to guide us in how we should think about the power of government?`

What makes Paul’s words so interesting is that he wrote his letter to the Romans during a time when Rome ruled the earth. The people of the Roman Empire [Kingdom] worshiped many gods. The Roman Empire was very cruel and evil. The Roman Empire knew nothing about the true God. Not long after Paul wrote his letter, Rome would begin to attack people who wanted to worship God. In fact, both Paul and Jesus were put to death by the pagan Roman Empire! So, is it really possible that Paul is telling Christians to be good citizens of such an evil government?

But that is exactly what Paul does! Why does he do that? Because the idea about government is found everywhere in the Bible. God Himself gave humans their ideas about good government and helped them to see the need for good government. Nowhere does the Bible teach us the idea that we do not need government and laws.

At the same time, God does not accept all government or how some governments are run. We do not need to look too far to find examples of awful governments. But even under the rule of these governments, Christians should obey the laws of the land as much as they can. Christians should be loyal to their governments as long as the governments do not ask them to go against what God asks. We should think very carefully before doing anything that would put us at war against the government. We know from the Bible that one day all of God’s loyal followers will need to stand against the ruling powers in control of the whole earth (Revelation 13). Until then, we should do everything we can do to give honor to God by being good citizens of the country that we live in.

“We must accept that God put government in place. We must teach other Christians that we have a duty from God to obey the laws of the government. But what would hap-pen if the laws of the government were at war with God’s laws? Then we must obey God instead of man. God’s word in the Bible must be shown respect above any laws of the land.”—Ellen G. White, *The Acts of the Apostles* [Leaders], page 69, adapted.
