---
title:  Love One Another
date:   20/12/2017
---

`What does Romans 13:8 mean? Does this verse mean that love frees us from obeying the law?`

In Romans 13:8, Paul explains more about the law. Paul shows us that love must be the power behind everything we do and the reason for it. The law shows us God. And God is love. So, when we love, we do everything that the law asks us to do. At the same time, Paul is not throwing out God’s law. Paul is not putting some strange idea of love in its place. Some Christians argue that Paul is doing that very thing. But they are wrong. The Ten Commandments continue to have power in our lives. The law’s job is to point out sin. And who would say sin is not real? But we can only obey the law when our hearts are filled with love.

`Read Romans 13:9, 10. Which of God’s Ten Commandments does Paul list? How are these commandments examples that explain why we need love to obey the law? Why did Paul choose to list these commandments and not others?`

It is interesting to see that the importance of love to the law was not a new idea. Paul proves this fact by pointing to Leviticus 19:18: “ ‘Love your neighbor as you love yourself’ ” (NIrV). Paul shows us that this law of love was a necessary part of the Old Testament plan of worship. But some people argue that only the laws Paul mentions in Romans 13:9, 10 have any power in our lives. So, these laws would be the only ones we need to obey anymore. What would happen if this idea were true? Would that mean that Christians could dishonor their parents? Or worship false gods? Or let other gods take God’s place in our lives? Of course not!

Look at what is going on here in Romans 13. Paul’s topic deals with how we understand and show kindness to other people. Paul talks about the laws that deal with our personal connections with other people. We should not think that Paul’s words mean that the rest of the law has been thrown out. The New Testament writers also show us how important love is to the law. As they say, when we show love to other people, we show our love to God.

`How can you learn to love people the way God loves you?`
