---
title:  The Time Is Not Far Off
date:   21/12/2017
---

We have shown all quarter that Paul had a very clear purpose in mind when he wrote his letter to the church at Rome and to the Jewish believers there. Paul wanted to explain to them the meaning of faith and works in the New Agreement that God made with His people. Another name for the New Agreement is the New Covenant. Also, Paul explained how we are saved and how a sinner is made holy and right with God. Many of the people to whom Paul wrote had a deep respect for the law. So, Paul showed how important the law was in the New Agreement. Even in the Old Testament, the Jewish religion was a religion of grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. But many Jews turned away from grace to legalism. Legalism is the belief that you can save yourself by your own good behavior or by obeying the law. This belief did a lot of damage. Let what happened in Paul’s time be a warn-ing to the church in our time. We need to be careful not to make the same mistakes!

`Read Romans 13:11–14. What special time in the future is Paul talking about? What should we be doing to get ready for this special time?`

Notice the strong words Paul uses in these verses. How very interesting to read that Paul told believers to wake up and get it together. Jesus is coming back! Remember that Paul wrote this letter almost two thousand years ago. But how long ago he wrote makes no difference. Why? Because the Second Coming is as near as our own death. Next week or 40 years from now, we could close our eyes in death. Then we might sleep only four days or for 400 years. It really makes no difference to us. Because the next thing we know is the Second Coming. Any one of us could die at any time. So, time is indeed short. And God’s promise of everlasting life is nearer than we first believed.

`What if you knew for sure that Jesus was coming back next month. What would you change in your life, and why? Do you feel you would need to change these things a month before Jesus came back? If yes, then why not change these things right now? What is the difference between changing these things now or waiting until later?`
