---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/12/2017
---

“The Bible shows us God’s plan. Bible truths are God’s words. The person who makes these truths a part of his life becomes a new person in every way. But God does not give this person new powers of the mind. Instead, God takes away the sin that has darkened the per-son’s mind. God’s words to us: ‘I will give you a new heart’ also mean ‘I will give you a new mind.’ God changes our heart frst. Then He gives us a clear understanding of truth and our duty as Christians. We must study the Bible with careful attention and prayer. Then we will gain clear under-standing and the skill to judge wisely in everything.”—Ellen G. White, *My Life Today*, page 24, adapted.

“The Lord . . . is coming soon. We must be ready and waiting for Him to come back. Oh, how wonderful it will be to see Jesus and be welcomed as His saved ones! We have waited for a long time. But we must not let our hope grow weak or fade. What would happen if we could see the King [Jesus] in all His beauty? Then we would be blessed forever. I feel as if I must cry aloud: ‘We are going homeward!’ We are nearing the time that Jesus will come in power and glory to take His saved ones to their everlasting home.”—Ellen G. White, *Testimonies [Messages] for the Church*, volume 8, page 253, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1. How are we to be both good citizens and good Christians at the same time? That question can be difficult to answer. What if someone were to come to you for advice about how to be a good citizen? What if taking a stand for God put this person at war with the government? What advice would you give this person?`

`2. What is harder to do: to be very strict in obeying the law, or to love God and others without limits? Or would you argue that this question is unfair to begin with because it seems to say obedience and love are completely different and cannot be done at the same time? Is that idea true or false? Explain.`

`3. What have you learned from Romans to help you understand the importance of the Reformation? The Reformation was a time of big religious changes that began in the 1500s. At that time, people began to “wake up” to Bible truths. These truths led to the start of the Protestant churches. So, what does the book of Romans teach us about our beliefs as Protestants and why we believe the way we do?`
