---
title:  "The Holy Spirit: Working Behind the Scenes"
date:   07/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit: Working Behind the Scenes

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
Ezekiel 37:5, 9; Genesis 1:2; Job 26:13; Exodus 31:1–5; John 16:13, 14; Galatians 5:16–23.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE
> “ ‘He will bring me glory by receiving something from me and showing it to you’ ” (John 16:14, NIrV).

THE HOLY SPIRIT does not receive the same attention (special treatment) in the Bible that the Father and the Son receive. But the Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit was present at important moments in sacred (holy) history. For example, God created this world. And the Holy Spirit was at work during Creation. But He worked behind the scenes. This means He was more in the background. He also was involved in the work of inspiring (communicating God’s message to) God’s prophets (special messengers). In this way, the Holy Spirit had an important part in the writing of God’s Word (the Bible). And He played an important role in the miracle of Jesus Christ becoming a baby in Mary’s womb. 

But the Holy Spirit is not at the center of the Bible. We know little about Him. He remains in the background. His work and purpose are to help the work of Someone else in the Godhead. That Someone is Jesus, the Son of God. But it is also the Holy Spirit’s job to give glory to God the Father. 

The Bible teaches that the Holy Spirit chooses to be a behind-the-scenes Helper. He supports, helps, and provides what is needed. He works this way in all that He does now and has done. He does not try to get honor or fame.

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **womb**—a uterus. A uterus or womb is the organ in women in which babies develop before birth.
2. **Godhead**—the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit make up the Godhead. They are Three Persons who are One God.