---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT IS MYSTERIOUS
date:   08/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT IS MYSTERIOUS

(John 3:3–8)

`Read John 3:3–8 and Ezekiel 37:5, 9. Why is the wind a suitable picture for the way the Holy Spirit works?`

Jesus compares the Holy Spirit to the wind to show how the Spirit works. Jesus uses the wind as a symbol to show how hard it is to understand the Holy Spirit. For example, the way the wind moves is mysterious. It is difficult to know exactly where the wind comes from and where the wind is going.

We cannot control where the wind comes from. But we can learn how the wind moves by experiencing  it. In the same way, no one can control the Holy Spirit. But we can know where He is working and that He is working. This is because just like the wind, the Holy Spirit cannot be seen. But His power can be sensed in a strong way. In other words, we can feel the wind. And we often can see its effect, even if we cannot see the wind itself. But wind can be a light breeze to a deadly blast. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit’s power is like a strong wind. Why is His power described in this way? It is because He has the power to bring the dead to life. It takes the greatest strength and highest power to do this work. Bringing the dead to life is something that only God can do. 

How the dead are brought back to life is a mystery. God and His work through the Holy Spirit are greater than what we fully can understand. 

This fact does not mean that we cannot know what work the Holy Spirit gets done. But we have to have humble (not proud) hearts when considering the mysteries of God. And a humble heart appreciates the greatness of God. A humble heart recognizes our limits as fallen humans. It accepts our need for revelation from God. 

Ellen G. White writes, “The mysteries of the Bible are not an argument against the Bible. Instead, the mysteries of the Bible are some of the strongest proof that the Bible comes from God. Suppose the Bible contained only those things about God that we could understand. And suppose God’s greatness and majesty could be grasped (understood) by human minds. Then the Bible would not show, as it does now, that it came from God.”—Adapted from Education, page 170. 

`What are some unseen forces in nature that can impact (affect) our lives? What should these forces in nature teach us about other unseen powers in our world and how real they are?` 

##### DEFINITIONS

3. **mysterious—difficult to understand.
4. **compares**—to show how two or more things are the same or different.
5. **revelation**—a sign or message from God.