---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AT CREATION
date:   09/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AT CREATION

(Genesis 1:2)

The first great work of God on this planet was its creation. The Bible clearly mentions God (Genesis 1:1) and Jesus Christ (Colossians 1:16, 17) as the Creator of heaven and earth. They created all that was made (John 1:1–3). But the Bible also mentions the Holy Spirit in the work of Creation.

`Read Genesis 1:2; Job 26:13; Job 33:4; Psalm 33:6; and Psalm 104:29, 30. In these verses, what is the job of the Holy Spirit at Creation? How is the Spirit of God related to the creation of life?`

The Bible clearly mentions God the Father and His Holy Son, Jesus Christ, as taking part in the creation of the world (read Isaiah 64:8 and Colossians 1:16, 17). But the Holy Spirit is there also. The Creation story in Genesis 1:2 mentions the presence of God’s Spirit at Creation. Job 26:13; Job 33:4; Psalm 104:29, 30; and Psalm 33:6 teach the idea that the Holy Spirit was involved in the creation of the earth. So, He is involved in the creation of the world in a way that is not so obvious (easily seen). 

We could say, then, that the Holy Spirit does not appear as the central actor in the Creation story. Instead, He is “hovering [staying very close; floating] over the waters” (Genesis 1:2, NIrV). And through His hovering, He is there at the beginning of life on this earth. The Hebrew word for “moving over” the surface of the earth, or “hovering,” is merahepeth. This word is used in Genesis 1:2. It is the same word that is used in Deuteronomy 32:11. Deuteronomy 32:11 compares God to an eagle hovering over its nest of young. So, we know the Holy Spirit is involved closely in the creation of life on this earth. He takes care of the newly created living beings (humans) as an eagle would take care of its young. And Psalm 104:30 suggests that creation was possible only through the work of the Holy Spirit.

`The Holy Spirit was not only there at the creation of this world, but He also has an important part in the process of our re-creation (being made new). His part is giving us a new heart and a new mind. How are both of these jobs of creation and re-creation related? How does the Sabbath help us to understand and appreciate more fully this work of creation and re-creation?`