---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE SANCTUARY
date:   10/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE SANCTUARY 

(Exodus 25:8)

**“ ‘Have them make a sacred [holy; set apart] tent for me. I will live among them’ ” (Exodus 25:8, NIrV).**

God’s act of Creation is of first importance in the Bible. And next to Creation in importance comes God’s plan of salvation. In a fallen world, what good would Creation be without the plan of redemption? So, as sinners, we need a Creator and a Redeemer. How thankful we should be that we have that Redeemer, Jesus Christ. Without Him, we would be without hope in a world that offers us none.

In the Old Testament, the sanctuary and its service showed how God forgives sin. It showed this truth through symbols. Much of the service pointed to Jesus and His death for the forgiveness of sin. But the Holy Spirit also was shown as having a part in the work of the sanctuary service. The Holy Spirit helped certain people to build the sanctuary. They built it using the pattern God had shown to Moses.

`Read Exodus 31:1–5. How was the Holy Spirit involved in building the sanctuary? How did the Holy Spirit help those who built it?`

The Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit was there when the sanctuary was built. The sanctuary was the main place where a holy God met sinners. It was the place where peace and harmony between God and humans were restored (made new after being broken). God told Moses to build the earthly sanctuary according to (just like) the sanctuary in heaven (Exodus 25:9, 40). 

God used the sanctuary to show us His plan of salvation. God was going to live among His people in a special way. And He was going to do it in the sanctuary, which He told them to build. It was the work of the Holy Spirit to help humans to use their skills to make the sanctuary beautiful. Without the Holy Spirit’s help, Israel would not have been able to accomplish this great work.  

`The Holy Spirit is powerful. He did not need human help to build the sanctuary. Instead, He helped people to do it with skill and beauty. How and where can you encourage and help other people to use their talents to serve God and give Him glory?`

##### DEFINITIONS

6. **sanctuary**—a place of worship.
7. **redemption**—the act of saving people from sin and evil.
8. **Redeemer**—One who sets sinners free from sin and evil.