---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT GIVES GLORY TO JESUS CHRIST
date:   11/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT GIVES GLORY TO JESUS CHRIST

(John 16:13, 14)

The Holy Spirit was at work during Old Testament times. But it does not seem that His work is as widely spread (covers many places) or as far reaching in Old Testament times as it is in the New Testament. This is because when Jesus came as the promised Messiah (the Chosen One; Savior), the work of the Holy Spirit increased. 

The Holy Spirit gives His gifts to all believers. The New Testament tells us that the Holy Spirit works in many different ways in our spiritual lives and in the life of the church. But His most important work is to give glory to Jesus Christ.  

`Read John 16:13, 14 and John 15:26. In these verses, what kind of work does Jesus say that the Holy Spirit does? How is all other work of the Holy Spirit related to this chief work?`

Jesus tells us that the Holy Spirit does not speak about Himself. Instead, the Holy Spirit speaks of Jesus. The Holy Spirit’s work involves giving glory to Jesus as our Savior. The Holy Spirit keeps Himself in the background. He puts the attention or focus on Jesus. It has been said that “the Spirit’s message to us is never ‘Look at Me [the Holy Spirit]. Come to Me. Get to know Me.’ But His message always is ‘Look at Him [Jesus]. See His glory. Listen to Him. Hear His word. Go to Him and live; get to know Him. Taste His gift of joy and peace.’ We can say that the Spirit is the heavenly matchmaker. It is His job to bring us and Christ together. And it is His job to help us stay together.”—Adapted from J. I. Packer, Keep in Step With the Spirit: Finding Fullness in Our Walk With God, revised (changed) and enlarged edition (Grand Rapids: Baker Books, 2005), pages 57, 58.

This part of the Holy Spirit’s work in pointing to Jesus is so important. The Holy Spirit is necessary for our spiritual lives. But He should never take the place in our lives that belongs only to Jesus Christ. Wherever Jesus is honored, the Holy Spirit is at work. 

`Why is it so important for us to lift up the risen Lord in all that we do? After all, think about what Jesus has done for us. We owe everything to Him. How can we show our thanks to Him? (For example, read 2 Thessalonians 1:11, 12.)`

##### DEFINITIONS

9. **matchmaker**—a person who tries to bring two people together so that they will marry each other.