---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND CHRIST
date:   12/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND CHRIST

(Luke 24:44–49)

The Holy Spirit helped Jesus do many things during His time on earth. He made it possible for Jesus to be born as a baby (Luke 1:34, 35). He poured out His power on Jesus to do His holy work (Luke 3:21, 22). This power helped Jesus to complete His work as the Messiah. 

But in all this work, the Holy Spirit stayed in the background. Instead, He chose to help bring Jesus Christ to the center of our attention.

  `Read Luke 24:44–49; Galatians 5:16–23; and Ephesians 4:23, 24. In these verses, what do we learn about the work of the Holy Spirit? How does the Holy Spirit give glory to Jesus?`

The Holy Spirit gives glory to Jesus in the following ways:

1. The Holy Spirit teaches about Jesus in the Bible. We can trust what the Holy Spirit says. He tells us everything we need to know about Christ and salvation. Nothing is missing from what He tells us. He does not mislead us. All we need to know is there in the Bible. We must read the Word of God in faith. We must obey its teachings. 
2. The Holy Spirit draws men and women into a saving relationship with Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit gently works on people’s hearts and minds. He gives them understanding. Then they are able to understand spiritual things. He causes them to be willing to place their trust in Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit helps them to accept Jesus as their Leader and Savior. 
3. The Holy Spirit helps us to have Christ’s character (goodness; holiness). He helps us to be like Christ in our lives (Galatians 5:22, 23). And through the blood of Jesus, we are given victory over sin (compare Revelation 12:11). The Holy Spirit gives us strength to be faithful to God’s commandments.
4. The Holy Spirit helps us to live lives of service to others just as Jesus did. The Holy Spirit helps us to be loving and unselfish. He calls men and women to do special work for God. He helps us to reach out to others in a way that draws them to Christ. 

`The Spirit helps us to have the character of Christ. How does this part of the Spirit’s work in our lives bring glory to the Father?`