---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   13/01/2017
---

##### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

There is no question that the work of the Holy Spirit is very important to our walk with the Lord. Again, we might not be able to see the Holy Spirit work. But we can see the effect (result) of His work in our lives and in the lives of others. Suppose your life has changed through faith in Jesus. Then it has changed only through the work of the Holy Spirit in it. “We cannot see the wind. But we can see and feel its effects. In the same way, the work of the Spirit upon the soul will be seen in every act of the one who has felt its saving power. The Spirit of God must take full control of our hearts. Then the Spirit can fully change our lives. Sinful thoughts are put away. We stop doing evil. Love, a gentle heart, and peace take the place of anger, jealousy, and quarrels. Joy takes the place of sadness. The whole face shows the light of heaven.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 173. 

These promises are wonderful! Many people’s lives have shown just how real they are. But the work of the Holy Spirit is not something that happens all at once. We do not in an instant become the kind of people we should be. A life of faith and obedience to the Lord is a life of struggle. It is a life of surrender. It involves repentance (turning from sin) when we fail. The Holy Spirit is our Divine Agent. He works in our lives to make us into new people in Christ. But this process is the work of a lifetime. Our faults and weaknesses should lead us to surrender ourselves to the Lord even more. But we must not let the devil use our faults to discourage us in our Christian lives. The devil always is eager to destroy our hopes. He will try to make us feel terrible about the sins we did in the past. But when he does, we always must remember the death of Jesus on behalf of (for) sinners. We are sinners in need of grace (mercy and forgiveness). Jesus died for us to give us that grace.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

`What can the Holy Spirit’s example teach you about working for God from behind the scenes? That is, what can it teach you about doing the work of the Lord in a way that many people do not know about, understand, or even appreciate?` 

`How does the Holy Spirit lift up Jesus? How does the Spirit bring Jesus to the center of our attention? How can you lift up Jesus without putting yourself at the center of attention? Why is that sometimes so hard to do? How can we fight the natural desire to put ourselves first before Jesus and ahead of others?`