### Our Future Hope

God made humans to live forever in loving friendship with Him and everything He made. But this friendship was broken by sin. Sin is a mystery. No one really understands how it happened. Sin first started with Lucifer in the courts in heaven (Isaiah 14:12–15; Ezekiel 28:12–19; Revelation 12:7–12) and then later with Adam and Eve (Genesis 3:1–19; Romans 5:12). Sad to say, humans started to die, and so did all life on earth. Death is everywhere we look today: in the leaves that fall and the flowers that dry up in our vases. We see death when our innocent pets die in pain and when death takes away our family and friends. Life is full of suffering and tears.

As humans, we know that we will die. So, we need hope for this life now and hope for the future. The Swiss Bible thinker, Emil Brunner, says the same thing: “Human life needs hope the same as the lungs need air. Remove air from the lungs and what happens? A person will die. Remove hope from humans, and they will not want to live. Humans depend on air to live. In the same way, humans also depend on hope to live, too.”—Emil Brunner, Eternal Hope (London: Lutterworth Press, 1954), page 7, adapted. The Bible hope helps keep us alive and well during the troubles we meet on our journey to heaven.

Our hope of everlasting life is not a clever story “that people invented” (2 Peter 1:16, ERV). Our hope comes from God’s promise that He will give us a perfect earth with no more tears, pain, or death (Revelation 21:1–5). We can trust this promise. This precious promise helped the church in New Testament times to have hope. This promise gave hope to many Christians since that time. This same promise gives us hope and comforts us, too. This promise gives us hope that we will see our loved ones again because they accepted Jesus. Jesus will wake them up from the dead at His Second Coming. Then they will get everlasting life.

This quarter’s Bible study guide talks about the topic of the worldwide war between God and Satan. We will look at two parts of this war. These two parts can be asked as questions. (1) How did sin and death start? And (2) what did God do in the past to solve these problems? Also, what is God doing today to make the earth new again? We will study about what happens when we die. We also will look at the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when God will wake up His sleeping saints at the Second Coming. We will learn about how the resurrection will lead to everlasting life. Then we will not be afraid of death. Jesus died for us. Jesus won the war over sin and death. Jesus announces, “ ‘I am the One who lives. I was dead, but look: I am alive forever and ever! And I hold the keys of death and where the dead are’ ” (Revelation 1:18, ICB).

This quarter, we will learn about the painful topic of death. But we will always remember the promise of hope that Jesus gives us.

_Dr. Alberto R. Timm works for the Ellen G. White Estate at the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists._