---
title: Returning to the Crucible
date: 09/11/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 11**

**Returning to the Crucible**

The final section of John 10 shows Jesus leaving Jerusalem and venturing into a secluded area beyond the Jordan, where His ministry continued to develop and flourish (vv. 40–42). Several months transpired between chapters 10 and 11, and we find ourselves with the Passover swiftly approaching. A need arose that compelled Jesus to return to Jerusalem. The special bond Jesus had with a certain family is evident in the way Jesus was informed of Lazarus’ illness: “he whom You love is sick” (v. 3; see also v. 5).

What follows is the account of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead and the profound results of such a miracle. While the Synoptics contain accounts of others being brought back to life, most don’t contain the details and dialogue found here in John. From the onset, John emphasized the theological importance of Jesus’ actions. Lazarus’ death was not happenstance; its purpose was to reveal the glory of God and His Son (v. 4). Once more, the revelation of Jesus’ divinity was polarizing; the audience was split in their response (vv. 45, 46, 53).

This story also uses John’s typical style of writing in which words and images operate on more than one level. Jesus raising Lazarus from the grave not only reveals God’s power over death but also serves as a metaphor for the life Jesus offers. The new life He offers is not one that takes leave of this world but is one that functions within in it. Sorrow and loss still come to all of us, but the life that Christ offers assures us that He has indeed defeated death. The grave does not have the final word.

John 11 naturally splits into three sections. The first lays out the setting, in which the reader learns of the illness, Jesus’ hesitation, and finally the decision to go to Bethany (vv. 1–16). The next focuses on the raising of Lazarus and its theological meaning as described in conversations before and after the event (vv. 17–44). The final section describes the Jews’ reaction to the miracle (vv. 45–57). They persisted in resisting the light and marched into deeper darkness, culminating in the official decision to put Jesus to death. After Lazarus’ resurrection, the religious leaders were continually plotting how they might destroy Jesus.

#### inScribe

Read John 11 slowly, in one sitting. Note the sections of dialogue and how they interact with the narrative. Create a paraphrase of verses 32–44, quote it in a version you don’t frequently use, or create an outline or a mind map of the verses.

` `