---
title: Coming to Bethany
date: 10/11/2024
---

#### inGest

Readers encountering this section for the first time would have questions. Among them are: Who was Lazarus? Who were Mary and Martha? What were their roles in Jesus’ life? John emphasized one point: that Jesus loved each of them (John 11:3, 5). Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were siblings (vv. 1, 2, 19, 21). John identified Mary by referring to her actions in John 12:3–7 (11:2). Martha was likely the older sister (based on ancient culture and how the Bible describes her primary role in the home; Luke 10:38). She was also the first to meet Jesus after Lazarus’ death (John 11:20).

An informed reader probably expects a positive ending to the story, and it’s jarring to think of Jesus’ intentional delay (11:4–8). We often want God to act now, but His purposes may not reflect our timing. External forces do not move Jesus into action; He is determined to do the will of God. His relationship with God, not human expectations, governs His actions. We know that Lazarus had been buried for four days when Jesus arrived (v. 39). The village was about a day’s journey away from where Jesus was, and we know that He delayed two days and then took an additional day to travel to Bethany, so Lazarus had likely already died by the time Jesus received the message. Regardless, the delay must have been deeply unsettling to the disciples, who probably expected Jesus to go right away.

When Jesus announced their return to Judea, the disciples expressed concern for Jesus and for themselves (v. 8). They only saw danger awaiting them. Jesus could not be convinced to abandon the path laid before Him. Despite the danger, He went forward. In various discussions with the disciples, Jesus reminded them that it’s necessary to walk in the light (1:4, 5; 3:19–21; 8:12; 9:5; 11:9, 10). He reassured the disciples that by walking in the day, they would not stumble. Jesus didn’t mean life will be free of trials, but that the disciples would be enabled to complete their journey (17:15).

Once more, the disciples misunderstood Jesus’ metaphorical language (3:4; 4:11, 33; 6:52; 11:12, 13). Jesus said He would awaken Lazarus from sleep. The disciples thought He meant Lazarus was resting from his illness and they probably wondered why Jesus would wake him, for even today we know that sleep has some degree of restorative power. However, Scripture commonly uses sleep to represent death (e.g., Ps. 13:3; Dan. 12:2), and the disciples could have understood it this way. Then Jesus openly declared His meaning (John 11:14, 15). As He did so, He pointed to the end of the story—to Lazarus’ resurrection.

Thomas’ offer to die with Jesus in verse 16 is best read in the context of the disciples’ lack of comprehension. Regardless of this slowness to understand, Thomas was loyal to Christ. While not fully comprehending the situation, all the disciples insisted that they were willing to die with Jesus (Matt. 26:35). Unfortunately, as we modern readers know, at Jesus’ moment of greatest need, they all abandoned Him.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 11. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`In what situations do you feel unsettled and nervous, like the disciples?`

`Describe a situation where God orchestrated events for good even though you couldn’t understand the situation while you were experiencing it.`