---
title: Lazarus Resurrected
date: 11/11/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Jesus arrived in Bethany to the news that Lazarus had been dead for four days (John 11:39). According to a non-biblical Jewish belief commonly held at the time, the soul stayed near the body for three days, desiring to reenter it. The idea of bringing someone back to life after four days was unimaginable. Four days in the grave meant it was all over. Jesus raising Lazarus was an irrefutable sign of His power. With Bethany’s close proximity to Jerusalem and with Lazarus being the type of person whose death drew a large crowd (vv. 18, 19), this miracle would become well-known. These mourners became witnesses to a miracle that is truly inexplicable by any human means.

Martha came to meet Jesus before He entered the town and greeted Him with a slight reproach as well as a statement of faith (vv. 20–22, 30). This is a common reaction when we face situations we don’t understand. Sometimes we admonish God yet remain anchored in faith (see Mark 9:24). Her first sentence is understandable. She knew Jesus could have prevented this loss, but despite her disappointment, she kept her faith in Christ.

Jesus assured the grieving sister that her brother would rise again (John 11:23). Martha placed her hope in the resurrection at the end of time (Dan. 12:2, 3), and Jesus responded with one of the most powerful “I am” statements in the Gospel. He declared that He would not merely resurrect Lazarus but that He Himself is Resurrection and Life (John 11:25, 26). The resurrection is not some distant future event. Resurrection power is available now, as the kingdom is already impacting us.

Martha is more often remembered as the woman so busy with hospitality that she didn’t slow down to listen to Jesus’ words (Luke 10:41, 42), but her confession of faith (John 11:27) stands out as one of the strongest statements of belief in Jesus as the Messiah recorded anywhere in the Gospels. It reflects the reason John wrote his account (11:27; 20:31). The underlying Greek sentence structure places “I” in an emphatic position. No matter what others thought, she believed in Him. Her faith was not simply an emotional response; it had supporting doctrinal content. She knew that Jesus is the long-awaited Messiah, the Son of God, the One from above (1:1, 14).

Jesus was troubled and weeping as He went to the tomb with Mary and the mourners (11:32–35). Jesus’ response was heartfelt, genuine. Twice, John tells us that Jesus was “deeply moved” (11:33, 38, NIV). Was He overcome with sorrow for the sisters’ loss? Certainly, He was filled with compassion for them, but the expression “deeply moved” also reflects displeasure and indignation. Jesus was responding to the intruder, death. Perhaps He was also angry at the unbelief (v. 37) of those who were about to witness the miracle.

Jesus broke the power of death by calling Lazarus’ name. As did the other disciples, Lazarus responded to Christ’s words (vv. 43, 44). The detail John included about Lazarus coming forth still wrapped in burial clothes paints a vivid image of Christ’s power over the grave. This image is juxtaposed with Jesus’ resurrection, where He laid aside His own burial clothes (11:44; 20:6, 7).

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do we know when God wants us to wait patiently for a miracle that will come in the far distant future (John 11:24)? And how do we know when God wants us to have faith in Him to do something powerful in the present?`