---
title: Reactions to the Life-Giver
date: 13/11/2024
---

#### inVite

This astonishing miracle, which reveals Jesus as the Life-Giver, was polarizing. Many Jews who had come with Mary responded with belief. These were likely fellow mourners. Given their reaction, perhaps they were close to the family and rejoiced with them in regaining Lazarus. While some rejoice and are confirmed in faith by the sign, others went to tell the Pharisees (John 11:46). Considering the increasing attempts to arrest or kill Jesus since the healing at the pool of Bethesda, they likely thought the leaders would be deeply interested in His most recent activities. Their report triggered a council focused on what to do about Jesus (vv. 47). Rather than building faith, Jesus’ actions created concern in this group. Those who oppose Christ often won’t be swayed by more signs. More evidence is not needed. They’ve made up their minds; they need a new heart, not more information (3:3; Ezek. 36:26).

Misunderstanding abounded throughout the council discussion. First, the leaders and the people had vastly different responses to Jesus. Those in positions of power and influence were alarmed that people might continue to believe (John 11:48). In this, they misjudged how Jesus would react to a public wave of support (6:15). Second, notice carefully how they expressed their concerns. They were worried that “both our place and nation” would be removed (11:48). The rulers longed to keep in place the religious system that they controlled and the power that came with it. Their previous concern over the temple (2:20) was simply a front for their concern about their position in society. Third, Caiaphas, the high priest at the time, made the startling observation that it would be better for one man to die than for the nation to be lost (11:49, 50). John directly commented on this, observing that ironically, Caiaphas himself did not realize the significance of his words (v. 51). Looking back from a post-resurrection perspective, John openly stated that Jesus’ death is the means by which God is bringing His universal family together (v. 52). The council then resolved that Jesus needed to be captured—not to be tried, but to be put to death (vv. 53, 57).

The chapter closes with Jesus withdrawing to the mountainous area northeast of Jerusalem. No longer did He travel openly within Judea (v. 54). However, this departure was not an escape. It reveals that Jesus’ life was under His own power (10:17, 18). His hour was rapidly approaching.

As illustrated by the contrasting responses to Lazarus’ resurrection, a revelation of Jesus’ power resulted in either belief or resistance. We have encountered this theme since the beginning of John’s Gospel (1:9–12; 3:18–21). Light shines, providing an opportunity to respond to further illumination. Unfortunately, many resist the light and then wander from noonday to dusk to darkest night. Some believed, but for others, this life-giving miracle became the catalyst for the official decision to put Jesus to death. Take a moment to consider where you are on this spectrum.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 11 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How are you responding to the light God is bringing you?`

`Why did the religious leaders react so strongly against the resurrection of Lazarus? (John 12:9–11.)`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`