---
title:  Offerings and the Spirit
date:  22/09/2025
---

`Read Exodus 35:4–36:7. What important lessons are here for us today?`

An abundance of various precious materials was needed to build the tabernacle, and it was accomplished by generous donations from God’s people, who gave from the bottom of their hearts, willingly and with joy. They gave gold, silver, bronze, fine linen, precious stones, unique fabrics, acacia wood, olive oil, spices, and many other needed items. People also donated their labor because many specific objects needed to be crafted through their artistic and diligent work on the tent or its furniture. Also, tailors had to weave garments for the priests, who would be ministering in the tabernacle, and for the high priest, whose very elaborate garments included a breastplate and turban.

God had abundantly blessed the Israelites through the gifts that the Egyptians had given them on their departure from Egypt. Now it was their opportunity to give offerings of gratitude for God’s merciful and mighty leadership, and their hearts were moved to accomplish this work to His glory.

The people were giving with such joy and abundance that Moses was told: “ ‘The people are bringing more than enough’ ” (Exod. 36:5, NIV). So, Moses had to stop their donations “because what they already had was more than enough to do all the work” on the tabernacle (Exod. 36:7, NIV).

Through the guidance of the Holy Spirit, God equipped and em­powered the people to accurately build the tabernacle. Bezalel, Aholiab, and ­others were “filled . . . with the Spirit of God” (Exod. 35:31, NKJV), which means that they were endowed with skills, wisdom, and artistic knowledge to perfectly do all the work. It was an enormous project and had to be created exactly according to the model God showed Moses.

It is significant that the gift of the Holy Spirit was related to people’s different abilities and skills, which needed to be employed in building the tabernacle. To be filled with the Spirit is not a magical process and does not mean that special spiritual forces are within humans. To advance God’s cause and fulfill His mission, God empowers His followers to accomplish His objectives and to do it well.

`What spiritual gifts have you received when you were filled with the Holy Spirit? Remember that the spiritual gifts can flourish only when you cultivate the fruits of the Spirit in your life (Gal. 5:22, 23).`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Those who are sons of God will represent Christ in character. Their works will be perfumed by the infinite tenderness, compassion, love, and purity of the Son of God. And the more completely mind and body are yielded to the Holy Spirit, the greater will be the fragrance of our offering to him.\
If the spirit of self-denial and self-sacrifice imbued the hearts of all who claim to be children of God, every one would represent Jesus to the world. It is because of self-seeking on the part of his professed followers that the gospel of Christ is, to so great a degree, robbed of its power. If our hearts were free from all selfishness, the water of life, flowing from Christ to the world,—the gift of righteousness and immortality, brought to light through the gospel,—would be imparted to those who are ready to perish. By our unselfish devotion, other souls would be won to Christ.\
God has ordained that men and women and children should be educated by his word to become colaborers with Christ in the great work of dispensing his gifts to the world. But those who do this work must be like Christ. They must bear his image, and live his pure, unselfish life. By too many the incarnation and work of the Son of God are but dimly comprehended. He was the Majesty of heaven, the King of Glory; “yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich.” He pleased not himself, but cheerfully gave his life to ransom the world. He went about doing good, and this we must do if we would co-operate with him. Selfishness, self-­pleasing, self-serving, can find no place in the life of the true Christian.\
The life of Christ is an example of what a Christian can do with the powers given him of God. Do not become discouraged because your gift is not so large as that of some one else. Cheerfully give what you have, and God will bless your efforts. As you press close to the bleeding side of Christ, you will be actuated by his Spirit, and your heart will respond to his call. You will work as he worked, revealing his loving, unselfish spirit. Your faith will be strong, working by love and purifying your soul. Strengthened by power from above, you will be enabled to meet the Lord’s requirements, applying yourself resolutely to irksome tasks and self-sacrificing deeds for the Master’s sake.—“The Right Use of God’s Gifts,” Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, November 24, 1896, par. 15–18.