---
title:  The Tabernacle Built
date:  23/09/2025
---

`Skim through Exodus 36:8–39:31. Why do you think such explicit instructions were given? What does this teach us about how God cares about every detail?`

Moses carefully constructed the tabernacle, and the instructions he had received on Mount Sinai were diligently implemented. The biblical text enumerates the following: (1) the tabernacle with its different fabrics, curtains, and parts (Exod. 36:8–38); (2) the ark (Exod. 37:1–9); (3) the table for the showbread (Exod. 37:10–16); (4) the lampstand (Exod. 37:17–24); (5) the altar of incense (Exod. 37:25–29); (6) the altar of burnt offering (Exod. 38:1–7); (7) the basin for washing (Exod. 38:8); (8) the courtyard (Exod. 38:9–20); and (9) the material used for the tabernacle (Exod. 38:21–31). Exodus 39 continues with the descriptions of the ephod, breastplate, and other priestly garment pieces.

The tabernacle’s services were visual object lessons of the gospel, demonstrating God’s entire plan of redemption. The various ceremonies depicted (1) how God abhors and deals with sin, (2) how He saves repentant people, (3) what is the fate of the wicked, and (4) how He will secure a glorious future that will be without evil.

Two different but closely related services were performed in the sanctuary during the year: the daily and the yearly. This two-phase ministry illustrated how God treats sin and saves sinners. Through the _daily_ sanctuary services, God assured those who repented that He forgave their sins and graciously offered them salvation. To receive this gift of salvation, a sacrifice had to be made, and these sacrifices pointed to the death of the Messiah, whose blood “cleanses us from all sin” (1 John 1:7, NKJV). Confession of sin and accepting the robe of Christ’s righteousness was at the center of this gift (Ps. 32:1, 2). In this way, the repentant sinner was assured forgiveness and could rejoice in salvation.

The _yearly_ service, performed on the Day of the Atonement, demonstrated how God eradicates sin, solves the sin problem, and secures the sinless future (Leviticus 16, John 1:29). Presently, Christ’s twofold ministry in the heavenly sanctuary is another expression of God’s work for us (Heb. 7:25) and will bring the final solution to the problem of evil (Dan. 7:13, 14, 22, 27; Dan. 8:14; Rev. 21:4).

The sanctuary was a place for worshiping God, praising Him, and giving thanks. Worship is about maintaining one’s relationship with God, who invites believers into that fellowship.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

For the building of the sanctuary great and expensive preparations were necessary; a large amount of the most precious and costly material was required; yet the Lord accepted only freewill offerings. “Of every man that giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take My offering” was the divine command repeated by Moses to the congregation. Devotion to God and a spirit of sacrifice were the first requisites in preparing a dwelling place for the Most High.\
All the people responded with one accord. “They came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the Lord’s offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all His service, and for the holy garments. And they came, both men and women, as many as were willinghearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets, all jewels of gold: and every man that offered, offered an offering of gold unto the Lord.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 343, 344.

The tabernacle was so constructed that it could be taken apart and borne with the Israelites in all their journeyings. It was therefore small, being not more than fifty-five feet in length, and eighteen in breadth and height. Yet it was a magnificent structure. The wood employed for the building and its furniture was that of the acacia tree, which was less subject to decay than any other to be obtained at Sinai. The walls consisted of upright boards, set in silver sockets, and held firm by pillars and connecting bars; and all were overlaid with gold, giving to the building the appearance of solid gold. The roof was formed of four sets of curtains, the innermost of “fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubim of cunning work;” the other three respectively were of goats’ hair, rams’ skins dyed red, and sealskins, so arranged as to afford complete protection.\
The building was divided into two apartments by a rich and beautiful curtain, or veil, suspended from gold-plated pillars; and a similar veil closed the entrance of the first apartment. . . .\
In the first apartment, or holy place, were the table of showbread, the candlestick, or lampstand, and the altar of incense. The table of showbread stood on the north. . . . On this table the priests were each Sabbath to place twelve cakes, arranged in two piles, and sprinkled with frankincense. . . . On the south was the seven-branched candlestick, with its seven lamps. Its branches were ornamented with exquisitely wrought flowers, resembling lilies, and the whole was made from one solid piece of gold. . . . Just before the veil separating the holy place from the most holy and the immediate presence of God, stood the golden altar of incense. . . . The fire upon this altar was kindled by God Himself and was sacredly cherished. . . .\
Beyond the inner veil was the holy of holies, where centered the symbolic service of atonement and intercession, and which formed the connecting link between heaven and earth. In this apartment was the ark, a chest of acacia wood, overlaid within and without with gold, and having a crown of gold about the top. It was made as a depository for the tables of stone, upon which God Himself had inscribed the Ten Commandments. Hence it was called the ark of God’s testament, or the ark of the covenant, since the Ten Commandments were the basis of the covenant made between God and Israel.—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 347, 348.