---
title:  Paul’s First Trip to Share the Good News
date:   11/08/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 13; 2 Corinthians 4:7–10; Romans 10:1–4; Romans 3:19; Acts 14:1–26; Romans 9–11. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Brothers, understand what we are telling you. You can have forgiveness of your sins through [because of] this Jesus. The Law of Moses could not free you from your sins. But you can be made right with God if you believe in Jesus’ ” (Acts 13:38, 39, ERV).

GOD PLANNED for His followers to share the Good News with both Jews and Gentiles. Gentiles are non-Jews. It took a while for the first Jewish Christians to accept this plan.

The first Gentile church started in Antioch. Many Gentiles joined the Antioch church. Many Jewish Christians belonged to the Antioch church too (Galatians 2:11–13). The church grew very fast. How did that happen? Church members were very excited to share the Good News. Also, Paul and Barnabas arrived in Antioch. The work they did caused the church to grow fast too. Antioch became the first important Christian center outside Judea. In many ways, the Antioch church became more important than the Jerusalem church.

Antioch became the birthplace for Christian mission. Mission is the special work we do to help God’s church to grow. Paul left from Antioch to go on all three of his mission trips to share the Good News. Paul and the other leaders in Antioch helped Christianity to become the church that Jesus wanted it to be: a worldwide religion that would spread the Good News to everyone on the earth (Revelation 14:6).