---
title:  Paul’s Trip To Cyprus
date:   12/08/2018
---

In Acts 13, Luke introduces us to Paul’s first trip to share the Good News (Acts 13, 14). From Acts 13 until the end of the book, Luke writes about Paul and his work with the Gentiles. As we learned, Gentiles are all non-Jews. 

Paul’s first trip to share the Good News is the first time the church makes a careful plan to reach people with the truth about Jesus. Luke is careful to make it clear that this plan started with God, not with believers. God can work only when we are willing to put ourselves in a place where He can use us.

`Read Acts 13:1–12. What important truths does Luke make clear to us in these verses about Barnabas’s and Paul’s work in Cyprus?`

Some church members in Antioch prayed and fasted. Fasted means that they did not eat any food for a short time for spiritual reasons. Then the church leaders laid hands on Barnabas and Paul and asked God to bless their work for Him in a special way (Acts 14:26). 

Barnabas came from the island of Cyprus. Cyprus is found in the northeast part of the Mediterranean Sea. Cyprus was not far from Antioch. So, Cyprus was a good place for Paul and Barnabas to start their trip to share the Good News. Yes, people on Cyprus knew about the Good News. But there was more work for Paul and Barnabas there.

In Cyprus, Paul and Barnabas took Barnabas’ cousin John Mark (Acts 15:39; Colossians 4:10) with them. They went to Salamis and preached in synagogues. Synagogues are Jewish “churches” or places of worship. Anywhere Paul went, he preached in synagogues first before he preached to Gentiles. Remember, Jesus was Israel’s Promised One. So, it made sense to share the Good News with the Jews first. 

After Salamis, Paul and his friends went west and came to Paphos. Paphos was the capital of Cyprus. A Jewish magician named Elymas did not accept the Good News. But Sergius Paulus, the Roman governor, did (Acts 13:12). 

`In this story, a Jew does not accept the truth. But a Gentile accepts it. How can this experience help us understand that it is sometimes harder to reach Christians with “present truth”? Present truth is the truth we need most for our time.`