---
title:  'Paul’s Trip To Antioch In Pisidia: Part 2'
date:   14/08/2018
---

Acts 13:38, 39 tells us that the law cannot make us right with God. Our being made right with God is an important Bible teaching. We must obey the law. But the law cannot make us right with God because the law cannot make people obey (Acts 15:10; Romans 8:3). But what if the law could give us the power to obey now and in the future? Great! But that power cannot take away past sins (Romans 3:19; Galatians 3:10, 11). That is why we cannot obey the law to become right with God. We cannot earn this gift. We can get this gift only when we have faith in Jesus’ death for us (Romans 3:28; Galatians 2:16). We are not worthy of this gift. Yes, obeying the law is very important to the Christian life. But obeying the law does not save us.

`Read Acts 13:42–49. As these verses show us, how do the Jews like Paul’s message?` 

Paul ends his message by saying some things that are no doubt hard for the Jews to accept. Most of the Jews accept Paul’s message anyway. But the next Sabbath, something changes. Some Jews do not accept Paul’s message. Possibly, they are the leaders of the synagogue. A synagogue is a Jewish “church” or place of worship. Why are the leaders mean to Paul? Luke says they are jealous. 

But why? In Bible times, there are non-Jews who like many Jewish beliefs. What beliefs do the non-Jews like? A belief in one God, the Jewish way of living, and also the Sabbath. Many non-Jews, at that time, accept the Jewish faith, but they do not fully become Jews. They do not like the idea of needing to be circumcised. To be circumcised means the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. So, many non-Jews worship God in the synagogues but do not become Jews. This group of non-Jewish worshipers is named the “God-fearers.” The God-fearers in the Antioch synagogue (Acts 13:16, 43) may help spread the news about Paul’s message. At this time, many people join the church in large numbers. Of course, the non-Jews are excited that they can be saved without having to be circumcised first. 

This story may help explain why the Jewish leaders are jealous of Paul. These leaders do not accept the Good News. But that helps Paul and Barnabas give their full attention to the non-Jews. The non-Jews thank God for inviting them to accept His plan to save sinners.