---
title:  Paul’s Trip To Iconium
date:   15/08/2018
---

The Jewish leaders in Antioch asked the local rulers of that city to bring together a large group of people. The local rulers made this large group angry at Paul and Barnabas. Then the rulers and the large group chased Paul and Barnabas out of town (Acts 13:50). But Paul and Barnabas were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit (Acts 13:52). Then the two men went to the city of Iconium.  

`As Acts 14:1–7 shows us, what happens because of the work that Paul and Barnabas do in Iconium?`

In Iconium, Paul and Barnabas continue their habit of preaching to the Jews first before they preach to the non-Jews. Paul’s sermon in Antioch (Acts 13:16–41) shows us his reason for going to the Jews first before going to the non-Jews. What reason is that? Paul’s reason is about God’s choice. God chooses Israel to be His people (Romans 3:2; Romans 9:4, 5). God also makes a promise to His people that He will send them a Savior, born from David’s family line. Sadly, many Jews turn away from the Good News. But Paul hopes that many Jews will accept Jesus in the future. 

In Romans 9–11, Paul says clearly that “only some of the people of Israel are really God’s people” (Romans 9:6, ERV). Also, the reason some Jews believe in Jesus at all is because of God’s mercy. God has not turned away from His people. Even today, “a few of the Jews are being chosen because of God’s loving-favor” (Romans 11:5, NLV). Paul continues to preach the Good News to the non-Jews. But Paul believes that more Jews will come to Jesus in the future. 

“Paul’s words in Romans 9–11 explain more fully his plan to reach the Jews and the non-Jews alike with the Good News. Paul gives Christians a good reason for sharing the Good News with Jews who do not believe in Jesus.”—David G. Peterson, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers] (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 2009), page 401, adapted. 

At first, both Jews and non-Jews accept Paul’s Good News about Jesus. But then the Jews who do not believe in Jesus poison the minds of the people against Paul and Barnabas. A large crowd plans to kill Paul and Barnabas with stones. But Paul and Barnabas leave town first.

`How can you be a good witness to your Jewish friends?`