---
title:  Paul’s Trip To Lystra And Derbe
date:   16/08/2018
---

Paul and Barnabas visit Lystra next (Acts 14:6, 7). Luke tells us only one story that happens in Lystra. It is the story about how Paul heals a crippled man. 

`Read Acts 14:5–19. How do the people in Lystra behave when they see Paul heal the crippled man? How does their behavior show us that their beliefs are silly?`

The crowd in Lystra is very excited about the miracle that Paul does. The crowd thinks that Paul and Barnabas are gods. They believe Barnabas is Zeus. Zeus was the king of all the Greek gods. The crowd believes Paul is the Greek god named Hermes. Hermes was the god who ruled over business, communication, inventions, travel, and stealing. Hermes was also Zeus’ messenger and helper. The people in Lystra bring gifts of flowers and bulls to the city gates. The leaders want to burn these as gifts in an act of worship to Paul and Barnabas.

There is a story about Zeus and Hermes. It helps explain why the people want to worship Paul and Barnabas. The Roman poet Ovid wrote about this story. Ovid says Zeus and Hermes acted as humans. Then they visit a town near Lystra. Ovid says that an older couple is kind to the two gods. But other people are not nice to the gods. The gods reward the old man and old woman. The gods change their house into a temple and turn the old man and woman into holy leaders. Next, the gods put the new holy leaders in charge of the temple. Then the gods destroy the other people in the town (Metamorphoses 611-724).  

The people in Lystra know this story very well. No wonder they think Paul and Barnabas are two gods when Paul heals the crippled man! Paul and Barnabas stop the people in Lystra from worshiping them. But some bad men come from Antioch and Iconium and make the people in Lystra angry with Paul and Barnabas. The people throw stones at Paul until they think he is dead. 

`As Acts 14:20–26 shows us, where do Paul and Barnabas finish their journey? What do they do on their way back?`

`Paul says: “ ‘We must suffer many things on our way into God’s kingdom’ ” (Acts 14:22, ERV). What does Paul mean? How can you learn to grow from your suffering?`