---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/08/2018
---

“When Jesus lived on earth, He did everything to show the Jews they were wrong to stop other people from knowing the truth. Jesus worked to save non-Jewish people. For example, Jesus worked to save the Roman army leader and the woman from the country of Phoenicia. Now it was time for Jesus’ followers to bring the non-Jews to Jesus. Whole villages of non-Jews accepted the Good News gladly. They praised God for their new faith. Most of the Jews did not believe in the Good News. They tried to hurt those who believed. But their doubt and hate did not stop God’s plan to save the non-Jews. God’s plan was to join the new Israel to the old Israel. The Jewish places of worship closed their doors to the apostles. The apostles were the leaders of the church in New Testament times. Jesus put the apostles in charge of the church after He went back to heaven. People opened their homes to the apostles and let them teach there. The apostles also used public buildings owned by non-Jews. The apostles preached God’s truth there too.”—Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, page 51, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Think more about John Mark’s story. He ran away from Paul and Barnabas when things got hard. Later, Paul and Barnabas argued over John Mark. Barnabas wanted to work with John Mark again. Paul did not want to (read Acts 15:37). But many years later Paul wrote to Timothy: “Get Mark and bring him with you. He helps me in my work for the Lord” (2 Timothy 4:11, NIrV). We see Paul changed his mind. What does this story tell us about giving people second chances when they fail to do the work God gives them to do?`

`2.	Read again what Paul and Barnabas’ said to the people in Lystra who thought Paul and Barnabas were gods (Acts 14:14–18). What should we do when we feel the desire to accept praise for things God does?` 

`3.	Read Acts 14:21–23. What do Paul and Barnabas do to help the faith of new believers grow stronger? How can we do the same?`

`4.	The religious leaders who attacked Paul let man-made beliefs get in the way of true faith. How can we escape this trap ourselves?`