---
title:  Heroes
date:  08/09/2018
---

**Introduction**: 2 Tim. 3:12

Paul wrote in his letter to Timothy, “All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution” (2 Tim. 3:12). If the Holy Spirit led Paul to write this to a young adventist in the early church, how much more relevant are those words for young Adventists living as the church fulfills its earthly destiny?

Does every Christian feel the anxiety I feel when the topic of persecution comes up? My mind begins to race through the questions: Will I be ready? Do I have what it takes to make it through? And then God quietly reminds me of 2 Corinthians 9:8, which says, “And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work” (ESV).

In Antioch there was a bishop named Ignatius, who was despised for his faith and criminalized for its practice. He was captured and sent to Rome, where he would be tried and killed for professing Jesus. Ignatius, refusing to be discouraged, used his journey as did Paul, ministering to the soldiers escorting him. He is known specifically for holding his shackles to make it easier for his captors to fasten them to him. He encouraged the churches in all the cities along the way, even preaching the Word of God to them! This man, in the midst of persecution and on a journey to his death, could not stop being a blessing to others.

He wrote to the church in Rome, “Now I begin to be a disciple. I care for nothing, of visible or invisible things, so that I may but win Christ. Let fire and the cross, let the companies of wild beasts, let breaking of bones and tearing of limbs, let the grinding of the whole body, and all the malice of the devil, come upon me; be it so, only may I win Christ Jesus!”*

It was by receiving daily of God’s grace that those who have come before us were able to stand courageous in the midst of hopeless, soul-crushing persecution, to look boldly past the sunset of their earthly lives to see a brighter heavenly future. Thus it will be for us. We need not fear what lies before us, for nothing can separate us from the love of Christ as we live with Him and for Him and He works in us and through us. We can have every confidence that even in the darkest moments, we are “more than conquerors through him who loved us” (Rom. 8:37). Then will be revealed that true heroism that has always distinguished the children of God.

Will you be counted among His children?

_Stephanie Akenberger, Traverse City, Michigan, USA_