---
title:  Paul’s Death Wish
date:  09/09/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 21:23–36; 22:1–29; 23:1–10

Our story opens with Paul, the apostle always on the move: busy either preaching the gospel, avoiding death, or both. Paul’s post-conversion work was marked by avoiding a series of life-threatening situations. Because Paul was a new convert in Damascus, the Jews sought his life. In his missionary travels, Jews seemed intent on extinguishing his existence. As if that wasn’t bad enough, Romans and Greeks despised his message and sought to have him killed as well. But after three missionary journeys and sharing his testimony in between, Paul was (surprisingly) still alive. Until Acts 22, he managed to avoid dying at the hands of various mobs (Jewish, Roman, and Greek) and the Roman government.

This is why it is shocking that Paul persisted in his desire to travel to Jerusalem at the end of his third missionary journey. During his third journey, the Holy Spirit testified multiple times of the trials and tribulations that awaited him in Jerusalem. Despite these warnings, Paul pressed on. His statement to the Ephesian elders may give us some insight as to why he did: “And see, now I go bound in the spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there, except that the Holy Spirit testifies in every city, saying that chains and tribulations await me. But none of these things move me; nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.” (Acts 20:22–24, NKJV). Paul had a death wish: he desired to die to self so that he could fulfill the ministry he received from Jesus.

**Paul’s Ministry (Acts 21:23–26)**

According to Acts 9:15, Paul’s mission was to bear Jesus’ name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. This is especially relevant in the context of the early Christian church, considering that unity within the body was an issue. Some Jewish believers looked down on preaching to Gentiles and, even when they became Christians, treated them disrespectfully. Not only that, but some Jewish believers firmly believed that Gentile converts needed to keep the Mosaic law to be saved and did not hesitate to teach that. It was in this context that Paul made it his priority to share his testimony of work among the Gentiles with the brethren when he arrived in Jerusalem. Unsurprisingly, when they heard his account, they mentioned that there were Jews who thought that Paul was teaching Gentile converts to forsake Jewish customs. In the process of trying to disprove this, Paul was accosted at the temple and attacked as the subject of a riot incited by some Jews from Asia.

**Why Were the Jews So Angry? (Acts 21:27–36)**

This attack was one of many instances in which the Jews reacted vehemently to Paul’s message, which brings up the question, Why were the Jews so angry? Throughout the book of Acts, there are clues to why the Jews opposed the Christian movement. In Acts 6 it tells us that “they were not able to resist the wisdom and Spirit by which he [Stephen] spoke” (Acts 6:10, NKJV). The Jews were angry at the influence and truth of the gospel message. They rejected the idea that Jesus was the Messiah through whom salvation had come (Acts 13:46). They also saw the preaching to Gentiles as problematic. As soon as Paul mentioned his mission to preach the gospel to the Gentiles to the crowd in Jerusalem, they erupted in anger (Acts 22:21, 22). Not only that, but they maintained that the Mosaic law was still necessary, and this was one point upon which the case against Paul was built—the idea that Paul despised the law and the temple (Acts 21:28). The last two oppositions were shared by both Christian and non-Christian Jews.

**Paul’s Testimony (Acts 22:1–29)**

Aided by his arrest, Paul used this opportunity to speak to the crowd that had rioted. He knew that his personal experience would be so much more impactful than an exposition of the truth. Paul used Hebrew, so we know he was speaking specifically to his Jewish audience, and he started by sharing how steeped most of his life was in Jewish custom. He created a contrast between his former life as a persecutor of Christians and his life as a Christian, to show that he had made a drastic change. He used his testimony to illustrate how God is at the center of the Christian movement.

**Single to the Cause (Acts 23:1–10)**

As he proceeded through the legal system, Paul promoted his identity as a Roman citizen. On the surface this seems like a self-centered approach to suffering for the gospel, but a closer look reminds us that Paul fully intended to testify in Rome (Acts 19:21). He knew that only as a Roman citizen would he get due process in the legal system, and he constantly reminded his detainers that he was a Roman citizen. He also used his identity as the son of a Pharisee, and as a former Pharisee, to strike a rift in the camp of the Jews opposing him. And though it seemed that his intentions of preaching the gospel became dashed along the way (Acts 22:22–25; 23:10, 13–15), God orchestrated Paul’s circumstances in such a way that He was glorified. Not only did Paul see how many things he must suffer for the cause of Christ, he also bore Jesus’ name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel (Acts 9:15). By having his eye single to the cause of Christ, Paul fulfilled his purpose as a chosen vessel of the Lord.

**React**

`What promises can we claim for encouragement when ministering to others doesn’t go as expected?`

_Roxanne Dobson, Coral Springs, Florida, USA_