---
title:  Unifying Under Him
date:  10/09/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 11:17

“By no selfish practices can the cause of Christ be served. His cause is the cause of the oppressed and poor. In the hearts of His professed followers there is need of the tender sympathy of Christ—a deeper love for those whom He has so valued as to give His own life for their salvation.”1

“The apostles, in making their way to Jerusalem, called upon the brethren of the cities through which they passed, and encouraged them by relating their experience in the work of God, and the conversion of the Gentiles to the faith. . . .

“Peter . . . had related how the Holy Ghost fell on them, and had said, ‘Forasmuch then as God gave them the gift as he did unto us, who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, what was I that I could withstand God?’ ”2

“This message showed that God was no respecter of persons, but accepted and acknowledged all who feared him. Peter told of his astonishment when, in speaking the words of truth to those assembled at the home of Cornelius, he witnessed the Holy Spirit take possession of his hearers, Gentiles as well as Jews. . . . This was God’s warning that Peter was not to regard one as inferior to the other, for the blood of Christ could cleanse all from uncleanness.”3

“The glory of heaven is in lifting up the fallen, comforting the distressed. And wherever Christ abides in human hearts, He will be revealed the same way. . . .

“No distinction on account of nationality, race, or caste is recognized by God. He is the Maker of all mankind. . . .

“We should anticipate the sorrows, the difficulties, the troubles of others. . . . They may be ragged, uncouth, and seemingly in every way unattractive; yet they are God’s property. . . . They are members of God’s great household, and Christians as His stewards are responsible for them.”4

**React**

`How can we make those who are found on the outskirts feel welcome in the church and saved by Christ? In what ways can we attempt to change the hearts of those who feel the differences in our skin or culture are too drastic to unify under Christ’s truth and cleansing blood?`

_Abigail Almeida-Arrieta, Battle Creek, Michigan, USA_