---
title:  Dimensions of Faith
date:  11/09/2018
---

**Evidence**: John 20:31

While many were eyewitnesses to the miracles of Christ and believed Him, many also witnessed these events and refused to believe. Are there dimensions of faith? We can have belief with evidence, belief without evidence, or belief against evidence.

Belief with evidence relies on empirical proof (the basis of modern science). The faith of Thomas, the disciple of Christ, demanded visible evidence to believe the resurrection of the Savior. How often in our Christian walk do we demand concrete and tangible evidence in order to believe?

In his incompleteness theorems published in 1931, Kurt Gödel, a brilliant mathematician, turned the world of mathematics upside down. He categorically demonstrated how self-proof or disproof of any given mathematical system was impossible. For instance, to explain a system (x), we need a larger and outside system (y) to explain system x. To explain system y, we need another outside and even larger system (z) to explain y. The whole process becomes a continuum. The implication of Gödel’s theorems is that belief without evidence pervades all human existence!

Consider the logic-defying weirdness of quantum theory, where reality behaves so strangely that Newtonian (classical) physics is turned on its head. At the fundamental level of reality, the wave-particle duality, as shown by the double-slit experiment, demonstrates the complexity of nature. How does a photon (matter) “know” when to split itself? Does a photon have “an awareness of observation” that it would change from behaving like a wave to behaving like a particle?

Stories abound in the Bible to illustrate this belief against evidence. Look at the three Hebrew boys who, without a foreknowledge of flesh withstanding fire, entered the fiery furnace. The same is true for Job, who said, “Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him” (Job 13:15). He purposed his mind to pressing on against evidence (his deteriorating health). The woman with an illness of blood is another classic example. Against the medical doctors’ verdict and the crowd barrier, she pressed between the dirt and sandals of the multitudes just to touch the hem of Christ’s garment.

In the end, belief with evidence (eye of reason) and belief without evidence (eye of nothing) are surpassed by belief against evidence (eye of invisible). Belief against evidence rests upon the Word of God, even when logic says it’s impossible. “Faith must rest upon evidence, not demonstration.”*

_Valmy Karemera, Houston, Texas, USA_