---
title:  Unafraid and Unashamed
date:  12/09/2018
---

**How-to**: Rom. 1:16; Josh. 1:9

It’s easy to look at the ministry of Paul and see him as “another Bible character.” But, as he submitted himself to God’s molding power, Paul became a witness for his Master. Likewise, anyone truly born into God’s family is called to take care of the piece of the vineyard that He has entrusted to them. Practically, what are ways that we can also answer the call to be missionaries wherever we are?

See your mission field (Acts 23:11; Rom. 1:16; Mark 10:45). Your mission is not only to those outside the church (friends, coworkers, classmates, socially neglected persons) but also to those who are within your immediate sphere. Look around and evaluate where and how you can be used. Our mission field begins in the home and extends out everywhere we go.

Go (Acts 21:11–14; Josh. 1:9). Place yourself in situations where you can build relationships. If you’re trying to reach out to someone, grab a bite to eat, invite them out to an event at your church, or simply sit down and get to know them! With someone in your inner sphere of influence, make an effort to spend time with them, help where you can be of help, and be proactive in showing them that they’re cared for.

Share (Acts 22:1–21; 1 Pet. 3:15; John 17:17). Once you have built a relationship, or when the opportunity presents itself, don’t be afraid to share the testimony of how God has worked in your life. Our testimony is irrefutable, and by hearing and witnessing the stories of real people who have been won to Christ, the gospel message can become more tangible and visible to others. You will never know whether someone is open to spiritual things unless you ask. Prayerfully open the conversation toward spiritual subjects and engage in one-on-one Bible studies.

Pray for wisdom and patience (Acts 23:6–9; Matt. 10:16). Although the gospel message and the Holy Spirit are what convict hearts, everyone is reached in different ways. Find common ground to relate to others, and use that to your advantage. Everything takes time, and with everything there is a process.

**React**

`In your everyday conversations, what are ways you can direct the subject toward spiritual things?`

_Andrew Park, East Lansing, Michigan, USA_