---
title:  All Things
date:  13/09/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 21:23–23:11

Everything backfired. It seemed as though everything was done right, but it all went wrong. Things weren’t supposed to be this way! The most sincere efforts with altruistic intentions fell apart. Have you ever felt like this? If you have, then you have something in common with Paul.

Poor Paul! In his gallant efforts to bring unity to the fledging church, he ended up incarcerated in the fortress of Antonia. As the guards were carrying Paul up the fortress steps, he was able to convince them to let him speak to the mob. He was pleased to be able to give his testimony. Then, he escaped being scourged due to his Roman citizenship. So his first night in the fortress wasn’t so bad. However, the next day his session with the Sanhedrin was a disaster. Paul’s intended outcome for his journey was fading fast.

His second night of imprisonment was mentally anguishing. Was he wrong in succumbing to the purification ritual? Would his ministry end this way? There were so many other cities in which to preach the good news about Jesus. “No doubt as Paul reflected upon the events of the past two days he must have begun to question the wisdom of his fixed purpose to visit Jerusalem . . . in the face of repeated warnings of what was to happen to him there.”*

Was stoning, as that of Stephen—in which he played a pivotal role—to ironically be his own fate? He thought of Jesus, his Redeemer, who rescued him from being lost in the bondage of the old customs and traditions. He spent the night pouring out his heart in prayer. We don’t know what hour of the night it happened, but we are told, “The Lord stood near Paul and said, ‘Take courage! As you have testified about me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome’ ” (Acts 23:11, NIV).

Paul’s heartache turned to joy. The Lord’s assurance was so sweet. He had always wanted to go to Rome. He had not envisioned going in chains, but he didn’t care. Jesus worked to get him out of his predicament. Jesus is an expert at creating good out of bad situations.

**React**

`Can you think of a time in your own life when God took something bad and turned it into something good?`

_Nancy Schafner, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA_