---
title:  Recognizing Roadblocks
date:  14/09/2018
---

**Exploration**: John 17:22, 23

**Conclude**

No one can argue that church unity is important and necessary to fulfill the mission we have been given to spread the gospel. In John 17:22, 23 we see that not only is unity essential as we work together, but unity itself is a testimony of what God can do in our lives. Paul faced different roadblocks on his quest for unity in the church—the deep-rooted prejudice held toward the Gentiles, Jewish national pride, and a fear of persecution as a result of nonconformity. Pray that God continues to work in us to make us more like Him because only then will we be able to come together in true unity as the body of Christ, preaching His Word and hastening His second coming.

**Consider**

- Comparing and contrasting the actions of the Christian Jews with those of the non-Christian Jews as they interacted with Paul. Which actions caused disunity, and why?

- Reflecting on some of the things that you have encountered at home, school, and work that have caused dissension and disunity. What were the motives? How can these be seen in our churches?

- Creating a Venn diagram to evaluate the differences and similarities between unity and conformity. How can we be sure that we are upholding unity and not conformity?

- Interviewing people in your church, asking what kinds of things they see as contributing to unity and things creating disunity. Inquire as to possible solutions.

- Creating a collage of images that show disunity. How could unity have shown that God is at work?

- Reflecting on the following quote by A. W. Tozer in The Pursuit of God: “Has it ever occurred to you that one hundred pianos all tuned to the same fork are automatically tuned to each other? They are of one accord by being tuned, not to each other, but to another standard to which each one must individually bow. So one hundred worshipers . . . [meeting] together, each one looking away to Christ, are in heart nearer to each other than they could possibly be, were they to become ‘unity’ conscious and turn their eyes away from God to strive for closer fellowship.”

**Connect**

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 38, “Paul a Prisoner”; Sketches From the Life of Paul, chapter 19, “Meeting With the Elders”; chapter 20, “Paul a Prisoner.”

_Isai McGrath, Cedar Springs, Michigan, USA_