---
title:  Excited to Be With the Lord
date:   09/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 84:5-12; Psalm 122:1-5; Psalm 87:1, 2; Psalm 46:1-7; Psalm 125:1, 2.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Lord, I cannot wait to enter your Temple. I am so excited! Every part of me cries out to be with the Living God” (Psalm 84:2, ERV).

The book of psalms is filled with songs about Zion. Zion is a name for God’s holy mountain. The songs about Zion tell us about its beauty. They tell us about the Lord on His holy mountain. The whole earth is under His control. The songs about Zion often praise the Lord’s house of worship. The sons of Korah wrote many of these songs about Zion. The sons of Korah were musicians in the Lord’s temple (1 Chronicles 6:31-38). The sons of Korah were in charge of the temple gates (1 Chronicles 9:19).

Why does Zion fill God’s people with hope and joy? Zion is a symbol that shows us that God lives with His people. The people of Israel were God’s chosen people (Deuteronomy 7:6). So, Zion is God’s chosen mountain (Psalm 78:68; Psalm 87:2). The Lord sits as king in Zion (Psalm 99:1, 2). The Lord’s temple is located on Zion, too (Psalm 87:1, 2). Zion is the place where God blesses His people. Also, Zion is a place of safety for God’s people. Zion is often used as a name for God’s temple and the city of Jerusalem. God’s temple is the center of His work to save the human family on earth.

God blesses the whole earth from Zion. The whole earth belongs to the Lord. So, Zion is a place of joy for people everywhere on earth (Psalm 48:2).