---
title:  A Day In Your Temple Is Better Than 1,000 Days Anywhere Else
date:   10/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why does the poet want to live in God’s temple? Read Psalm 84:1-4 for the answer.`

The poet wants to live in God’s temple all his life. Then he will always be close to God (Psalm 84:1, 2). God lives in His temple (Psalm 84:2). That’s why the temple is a special place. In the temple, God’s people can “see the Lord’s beauty” (Psalm 27:4, ICB; also read Psalm 63:2). Then God’s people will be “filled with good things in your house, your holy Temple” (Psalm 65:4, ICB). In Psalm 84, the people are happy because they have a relationship with God. They praise Him (Psalm 84:4) because God gives His people strength (Psalm 84:5). So, the people trust in Him (Psalm 84:12). The people come to God’s temple to worship God and fellowship with other people. God lives in His temple. So, His people understand His kingdom better. They also have a better understanding of everlasting life.

`Who else can come to God’s temple to get a blessing? Read Psalm 84:5-12 for the answer.`

God pours His blessings out from His temple. First, God gives His blessings to the people who serve Him in His temple (Psalm 84:4). Then God pours His blessing on Jewish travelers who are on their way to His temple (Psalm 84:5-10). Finally, God’s blessings go to people everywhere on earth. People who travel to Zion expect to meet God in His temple. This hope makes their faith strong (Psalm 84:7).

When God’s people leave His temple, they carry home in their hearts the experience of meeting with God. This experience helps them to live holy lives (Psalm 84:11). The people try to live holy lives all the time so that they may be worthy of entering God’s temple again (Psalm 15:1, 2). In Psalm 84:11, we also see that the poet compares the Lord to a “sun.” The Lord’s blessings shine from His temple the same as sunrays to the ends of the earth (Psalm 84:11). God “shines” His mercy on everyone who lives with Him in faith.

`Read Revelation 21:3. This verse tells us that God will make His home with us on the new earth. What hope does this verse give you?`