---
title:  Pray For Jerusalem To Have Peace
date:   11/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How do God’s people feel when they arrive in Jerusalem? What do they hope to find in Jerusalem? Read Psalm 122:1-5 for the answers.`

In Psalm 122, God’s people are happy and excited to arrive at Jerusalem. The trip to Jerusalem was a joyful time. God’s people traveled three times during the year to celebrate God’s love for them for that year and in their past history (Deuteronomy 16:16). Jerusalem was the center of Israel’s life. Also, “the law he [God] gave to Israel” was in Jerusalem (Psalm 122:4, NIrV). Jerusalem was the place “where the people are judged” (Psalm 122:5, NIrV). When people traveled to Jerusalem for the religious celebrations, they could go to court and ask for help.

`In Psalm 122:6-9, what do God’s people pray for?`

The people pray for God to bless the city of Jerusalem with peace. This prayer causes all of God’s people to join together in heart and mind. When the people join ­together in this way, there is peace among them (Psalm 122:8). There can be peace in Jerusalem only if God’s people were at peace with Him and each other. So, when God’s people pray for peace in Jerusalem, they ask God to help them live in peace together with other people and with God. When Jerusalem is at peace, the people enjoy success in life (Psalm 147:12-14).

Psalm 122 teaches us that we must pray for our church and its members. When we are at peace and agreement with each other, we will be strong as a church. Then we can announce the Good News about God’s peace and His saving mercy to everyone on earth (John 13:34, 35).

When we pray for peace in the church, we keep alive the hope in God’s end-time kingdom of peace. This kingdom is much bigger than the city of Jerusalem. This kingdom includes the whole earth (Isaiah 52:7; Isaiah 66:12, 13; Revelation 21-22).

`What can we do now to have peace among us as people?`