---
title:  'Zion: The Home For All People'
date:   12/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What makes Zion so special? Why is it a wonderful place? Read Psalm 87:1, 2 for the answer.`

Psalm 87 is a hymn that celebrates Zion. God loves Zion. God chose Zion to be His special city. God’s temple is on Mount Zion (Psalm 2:6; Psalm 15:1). The Lord in Zion is an all-powerful King. Everyone on earth will honor Him there (Psalm 99:2; Isaiah 2:2; Micah 4:1). The poet says, “The Lord has built his city on the holy mountain” (Psalm 87:1, NIrV). From there, the Lord gives people His blessing of everlasting life (Psalm 133:3). God loves Zion more than any other place in all Israel (Psalm 87:2), including Bethel and Shiloh. In times past, Bethel and Shiloh were special meeting places for God’s people. Psalm 87 shows us that we must worship God in the place He chooses. We also must worship Him in the way He commands us.

`In Psalm 87:3-7, what wonderful things are said about Zion?`

Zion’s glory causes other people to want to know more about God. So, God’s kingdom includes the whole earth. Do you see that God doesn’t reject people who aren’t from Israel? God will accept all people who come to Him and accept the Lord as their Savior.

In Bible times, people belonged to the country where they were born (Nehemiah 7:5; Luke 2:1-3). In Psalm 87, the poet tells us three times that the people from other countries outside of Israel are “born” in Zion. What do we learn from this idea? We learn that God makes these people citizens of Zion even when they are born in other countries. God gives them the same blessings that He gives to the children who were born in Zion (Psalm 87:4-6).

Psalm 87 talks about the day when both Jews and non-Jews will be members of one holy kingdom (also read Romans 3:22; Romans 10:12; Galatians 3:28, 29). Compare the picture of Zion in Psalm 87 with Daniel’s dream about God’s kingdom (Daniel 2:34, 35, 44, 45). In Daniel’s dream, God’s kingdom becomes a big mountain that fills the earth.

`Psalm 87 shows us that God is ready to adopt all people into Zion. How does this idea help us to better understand that we must preach the good news to everyone on earth (Matthew 28:18-20)?`