---
title:  Safety And Peace In Zion
date:   13/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 46:1-7. What do these verses tell us about the earth?`

Psalm 46 shows us the earth in trouble. Natural disasters are happening everywhere (Psalm 46:2, 3). The Bible uses crashing waves or water as a word picture to show us evil people or the problems they cause on this earth (Psalm 93:3, 4; Psalm 124:2-5). In Psalm 46, we read about a time when “nations [people groups] will shake with fear and kingdoms will fall” (Psalm 46:6, ERV).

The people who fear and fall don’t know God. God is not living with them. How do we know? They have no peace. When God is with His people, they have peace (Psalm 46:4, 5). The people on the earth may reject God, but God doesn’t give up on them or reject them. Yes, things may get very bad on this earth. But we can have hope in this life because God is always with us.

The Lord is our place of safety. He gives Zion peace and makes it a safe place. The people on the earth may fight and go to war. But God’s people are safe. Peace is a gift that only God can give. He gives this gift to His trusting children. When we trust in God with all our hearts, God can give us peace and make us feel safe in the middle of a war or a terrible storm (Matthew 8:23-27). Someone may ask you: When will the wars and the storms end? Will God allow people to keep hurting each other until everyone is destroyed? Tell the person who asks these questions to read Psalm 46. Let’s read it now.

`How does God feel about all the evil and suffering on this earth? Read Psalm 46:6-11 for the answer.`

God is very upset with all the evil on this earth. He gets so angry about it that His anger causes the earth to melt (Psalm 46:6). God’s anger doesn’t destroy the earth. His anger makes the earth new. God will stop the wars and destroy the evil tools that humans make to hurt people (Psalm 46:9). Jesus promises to do these things at His Second Coming. His promise fills Christians with hope.

`How do we learn to have peace in life when so many bad things are happening all around us? How do we learn to trust in God during hard times?`