---
title:  The Mountain That Cannot Be Moved
date:   14/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`In Psalm 125:1, what does the poet compare God’s people to?`

In Psalm 125:1, God’s people are compared to Mount Zion. Mount Zion is a symbol for strength. Mount Zion cannot be moved. When God’s people trust in Him, they are as strong as Mount Zion. The poet knows that God will protect His people (Psalm 5:12; Psalm 32:7, 10). Mount Zion fills the hearts of God’s people with trust. Evil fills the earth around them. But God’s people continue to have hope.

`What causes God’s people to feel discouraged? Read Psalm 125:3-5 for the answer. What lesson can we learn from their experience?`

God’s children can feel discouraged when they see evil people enjoying much success in this life. Their success may cause some of God’s people to leave God and go enjoy a life of sin, too (Psalm 73:2-13; Psalm 94:3). God made us free to choose to do evil (Psalm 125:3, 5). But God will not keep people safe who leave Him to enjoy a life of sin. In the end, God will judge the ones who sin against Him and refuse to accept His forgiveness.

Psalm 125 is an invitation to all God’s people to stay strong in their faith in God. They must stay strong as Mount Zion. We may not always understand why evil happens. But we can continue to trust in the Lord.

“Many topics in the Bible are difficult for us to explain or fully understand. These topics include how sin started, Jesus’ being born, our being born again, and how humans wake up from the dead. There are many other topics, too, along with these topics that are mysteries. But we must not doubt the Bible because we can’t understand God’s mysteries. All around us on this earth there are mysteries we can’t understand. . . . Should we be surprised to learn that there are spiritual mysteries we also can’t understand? The problem is with our own thinking. Our minds are weak and limited. God gives us enough proof in the Bible to show us that the Bible is from Him. We may not always understand everything God does. But we must trust in Him anyway and not doubt the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, pages 106, 107, adapted.