---
title:  Additional thought
date:   15/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When we sing the songs about Zion, we will have hope. The songs about Zion keep our hope alive in God’s promise. God promises to make the earth new (Revelation 21:1-5). Then He will sit as the King on the new earth forever.

On the new earth, “God’s people will live forever. They will study with joy the many wonders that God has made. God’s people will study about God’s saving love. This love is a mystery. On the new earth, there will be no devil to cause us to forget about God. We will learn new skills. We will learn new knowledge and never get tired of learning. Nothing will be too hard for us to do. We will do many wonderful things. On the new earth, there will always be something more wonderful to do next. There will be new wonders to see and new spiritual truths to learn.”—Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_, page 677, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What important rules did we learn this week about God’s people in Zion? We learned that Zion is a real place in Jerusalem. How can the important rules we learned about Zion help us to understand our own work for God?`

`How can God’s followers live with God in His temple today (John 1:14-18; Hebrew 12:22-24)?`

`In Psalm 87, we see a picture of the future. We learn that Zion will become the city of all people groups on this earth (also read Romans 5:10; Ephesians 2:11-16; Colossians 1:19-23). How will this wonderful promise happen?`

`What if someone asks you to explain why evil people enjoy so much success in this life while “many” good people suffer? How would you answer this person? Why is it impor­tant to understand that we may not always have full answers now for everything bad that happens in this life?`