---
title:  Choose Life
date:  13/04/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Deuteronomy 30:15–20**

**Choose Life**

If you are planning to be a parent one day or if you already have children, you must understand the importance of boundaries. Rules and guidelines exist to help the child learn what’s right and wrong, good and bad, safe and dangerous. As a loving parent, you desire what’s beneficial for your child, which makes rules necessary. This begins with rules that govern the basics of survival, safety, and sustenance and later extend to more complex aspects of life—rules that make life good, productive, and worth living. As children get older and their intellectual abilities increase, so does the need to explain more of the rules. Just think of your own teenage years—you most likely questioned the rules at least once, feeling that they interfered with many of the things you wanted to have and do. Parents can require obedience from their children up to a certain age, but eventually, children gain the freedom to choose whether to obey. At that point, all parents can do is appeal to children to make the right kinds of choices based on trust.

In Moses’ final days as the aged leader and spiritual father of Israel, he gave a series of sermons, recorded in the book of Deuteronomy, in which he laid out Israel’s history and God’s covenant stipulations, explaining in detail why a life with God is worth the commitment. As he concluded, he made a final appeal to His people, pointing out the two choices they had: life or death, good or evil. He urged them to choose life, to choose God, to choose love. God has no interest in forced relationships and mandated faithfulness. Only when we choose life, when we choose love and everything it entails, is true life—yes, eternal life—possible, and only then can all creatures be in harmony with each other and with their Creator.

This week’s study focuses on the concept of freedom of choice in the context of the great controversy.

#### inScribe

Write out Deuteronomy 30:15–20 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 19. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._