---
title:  Two Choices, Three Options?
date:  14/04/2024
---

#### inGest

The Bible presents life as a binary system: there’s good and evil, right and wrong, life and death. While one choice doesn’t necessarily determine our fate, it does influence our life’s trajectory. One change in trajectory, however, can eventually lead to a destiny from which there is no return.

In his final appeal to God’s people, Moses says that choosing God and His ways will result in life (Deut. 30:15), increased population (v. 16), general blessings (v. 16), longevity and fulfillment (v. 20), and lasting property ownership (v. 20). Wonderful benefits! Who wouldn’t want all of these? In contrast, a choice against God, whether through a refusal to listen, being drawn away, or worshiping and offering service to anyone and anything that is not Yahweh (v. 17), will result in death, a shortened life (v. 18), and curses (v. 19). God allows both choices to exist. A life with God means a total commitment (v. 10). It means adjusting our direction in life, calibrating our attention away from the self and worldly influences, and making God the main priority in life—acknowledging Him as the very Source of life and truth.

He has even made provision for when our path in life leads us away from Him. Our life’s trajectory is not immediately our destiny. Earlier, in Deuteronomy 30:1–3, God makes it clear that whenever and wherever people choose to return to Him, no matter how far they have deviated, He will accept their repentance and welcome them home with open arms. He is truly the good Father in the parable of the prodigal son (Luke 15:11–32).

Because God is the Creator and Source of life, there can be only two choices relating to eternity: perpetual existence with God, or nonexistence without God. A third option (i.e., eternal existence without God) is logically impossible because 1. God has a right to His Creation and nothing can hide from His presence, and 2. as the Sustainer of life, if He were to withdraw His presence, it would result in a withdrawal of lifeforce and make this option an impossibility.

Even so, a large amount of humanity seems to desire this impossible third option. Philosophies, religions, and spiritual concepts have been introduced that suggest alternative ways, promising some form of eternal or recurring existence without the God of the Bible. This would only be possible if we were gods ourselves and possessed original, unborrowed, underived life—which we obviously don’t have. Such thinking led Lucifer to rebel against God, desiring that third option—desiring to become God Himself and change the rules that govern life in the universe. This attempted rebellion defies logic and destroys the only environment where love can exist and thrive.

As believers, we know that God, His Word, and His rules are all good and form the foundation for love. To tap into the life He desires for us both here on earth and forever on the new earth, we simply need to choose Him, for He is our life (Deut. 30:20).

Journal:

`What’s your life’s trajectory right now? Which destiny are you moving toward?`

`Why is freedom of choice so important to God? Is true freedom limited? Why or why not?`