---
title:  Commanded to Love
date:  15/04/2024
---

#### inTerpret

One of the ways Satan draws people away from choosing to love and serve God is by portraying Him as a tyrannical ruler and dictator, thus marring God’s character with false accusations. In his attacks, he especially enjoys twisting Scripture (e.g., Matt. 4:1–11). A surface reading of this week’s primary passage could yield questions regarding the nature of the relationship God desires with us and might easily be utilized by the enemy to sow doubts about God’s character. Deuteronomy 30:16 can come across as quite strong when Moses says, “I command you today to love the Lord your God,... to keep His commandments... and the Lord your God will bless you.” Since when can we command love? Commanded obedience to laws makes sense in the context of a citizen’s relationship with the government, but commanded love? And what happened to God’s mercy and grace? Since when do we receive blessings through our works of obedience? These are legitimate questions after reading the text.

As we’ve noted, Deuteronomy was Moses’ final appeal to God’s people, given just before he died. He reminded them of their most recent history—their exodus from Egypt, their covenant with Yahweh, their wilderness wanderings, and their learning and growing in understanding God’s will. It’s clear that he wasn’t speaking to individuals who know nothing about God but to a people well acquainted with the revealed truths of heaven (Deut. 29:29). With their own eyes they had seen God’s mighty hand move on their behalf through supernatural interventions and visible manifestations of His care, grace, glory, and presence. In other words, questioning God’s existence or doubting His worthiness to be worshiped would make no sense at this point in their journey. They were not at the beginning of their relationship with God but at a commitment renewal point, much like a married couple celebrates anniversaries and assures each other of their love not just once but again and again. The commandment to love God was Moses’ profound encouragement and strong, fatherly appeal to choose continual faithfulness to God because God had repeatedly proven Himself to be worthy and continually faithful to them.

So, what about the blessings and curses? We know from other passages that God cares about every creature and sends general blessings to all humanity (Matt. 5:45). In the dynamics of the great controversy, however, there are rules of celestial engagement and consequences to the right and wrong actions of free moral agents. For Israel, God’s special blessings could only be bestowed through the covenant and for the purpose of His glorification among the nations of the world. They had nothing to do with earned favor. On the one hand, the curses are an educational tool, a parenting method; on the other hand, they are simply God’s allowing the natural consequences of deliberate rebellion to take their course. When understood in their context, God’s blessings and curses and the command to love God truly are in full harmony with the gospel.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? Which parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How has God shown you that He’s worthy of your devotion and allegiance?`