---
title:  Choosing to Live Is Choosing to Die
date:  17/04/2024
---

#### inVite

Life and death were probably at the forefront of the Israelites’ minds rather often while they lived in the rugged environment of the desert. The wilderness into which God led them was a harsh, deadly place. If it weren’t for God’s daily provisions (Exod. 16:1–21; Deut. 29:5), the people would not have survived. His presence provided life in a place of death. At the same time, if God hadn’t veiled Himself in the cloud by day and the fire by night, the Israelites would have been consumed in the immediate proximity of His glory and holiness. God wanted to be among His people. He provided the sanctuary and its system to help sinners find life, healing, and forgiveness in His presence. “And let them make Me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them” (Exod. 25:8). God still wants to dwell among His people. His unveiled holy presence would bring certain death to today’s sinner just as it would to the Israelite, but in His infinite love and grace, He has once again found a way to separate the sin from the sinner: by taking death upon Himself. For both the Israelite and the modern believer, God’s unveiled presence means death, but His grace provides life.

Moses emphasized that to choose God is to choose life (Deut. 30:20). Jesus is Yahweh, the same Lord who led the people of Israel and walked with them, providing His blessings and protection (1 Cor. 10:1–4). Moses’ call to choose life echoes through Scripture and through the ages, appealing to you to choose Jesus Christ, “the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6). He is your salvation. He is your righteousness. He is your life! When we allow Jesus to circumcise our hearts, give us new hearts, and purify us from all sin, self-righteousness, and self-sufficiency, His holy presence can enter and remain, doing in us and for us all that we could never do for ourselves. Selfishness dies, and love lives. This process begins with a faith decision, a commitment of total surrender to God based on love. It continues throughout our lives as we invite His purifying holy presence, through the Holy Spirit, to access more and more of our beings each and every day (Luke 11:13). If we cling to Him, our (eternal) lives are secure. Yes, there is death on this side of heaven, but for all who believe, this death is just a type of sleep (John 11:11), an interlude between now and forever.

Satan’s biggest nightmare is Jesus living and thriving in our hearts. He hates people who, despite having joined his rebellion, choose to “defect” back to God (Rev. 12:17). He stops at nothing to ruin our experiences and to make life here as miserable as possible. How grateful we can be that when we choose Jesus, we are also choosing His benevolent protection (2 Thess. 3:3)! We can rest assured that even when He allows a blow from Satan to come near us, He will turn that blow into a victory (Rom. 8:28; 2 Cor. 13:8).

Journal:

`Meditate on Deuteronomy 30:15–20 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How have you experienced Jesus’ life-giving and life-changing presence in the last few weeks and months?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`