---
title:  I See, I Want, I Take
date:   06/01/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Cor. 8:1–7; Matt. 13:3–7, 22; Gen. 3:1–6; Isa. 56:11; Matt. 26:14–16; 2 Pet. 1:5–9.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful’ ” (Matthew 13:22, NKJV). 

The love of money and material possessions can come at us from many different angles. Ellen G. White describes the devil’s ploy to lure us through the wiles of materialism. “ ‘Go, make the possessors of lands and money drunk with the cares of this life. Present the world before them in its most attractive light, that they may lay up their treasure here, and fix their affections upon earthly things. We must do our utmost to prevent those who labor in God’s cause from obtaining means to use against us. Keep the money in our own ranks. The more means they obtain, the more they will injure our kingdom by taking from us our subjects. Make them care more for money than the upbuilding of Christ’s kingdom and the spread of the truths we hate, and we need not fear their influence; for we know that every selfish, covetous person will fall under our power, and will finally be separated from God’s people.’ ”—Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 154, 155.

Unfortunately, this ploy seems to be working well. Let us look then at these dangers and what the Word of God says to us so that we can avoid this spiritual trap.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 13._