---
title:  Greed—Having Things Your Way
date:   10/01/2018
---

`Read Isaiah 56:11. What sin is this text warning us about?`

For us as fallen beings, greed can be as easy as breathing. And just as natural, too. However, it’s hard to imagine anything in the human character that is less reflective of the character of Christ than greed. “For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that you through His poverty might become rich” (2 Cor. 8:9, NKJV). 

Only the Lord knows the damage that greed has wrought throughout history. Greed has led to wars. Greed has caused people to commit crimes that brought ruin upon themselves and their families. Greed can be like a virus that will latch onto its host and consume every virtue until all that remains is more and more greed. Greed is a malady that wants everything: passion, power, and possessions. Again, I see, I want, I take.

`Read Matthew 26:14–16. What can we learn about the power of greed from this sad story?`

 Notice Judas’ words: “ ‘What are you willing to give me if I deliver Him to you?’ ” (Matt. 26:15, NKJV). Talk about letting greed override everything else! Judas had been privileged as very few people had been in all history: he lived with the incarnate Jesus, witnessed His miracles, and heard Him preach the words of life. And yet—look at what greed and covetousness led him to do.

“How tenderly the Saviour dealt with him who was to be His betrayer! In His teaching, Jesus dwelt upon principles of benevolence that struck at the very root of covetousness. He presented before Judas the heinous character of greed, and many a time the disciple realized that his character had been portrayed, and his sin pointed out; but he would not confess and forsake his unrighteousness.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 295. 

`Who, if not careful, doesn’t manifest some greed in his or her own character? How can we, through God’s grace, keep this natural tendency under control?`