---
title:  The Bible Truths That Make Us One in Jesus
date:   17/11/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 4:8–12; 1 Peter 2:21–24; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18; Hebrews 8:6; Deuteronomy 5:12–15; 1 Corinthians 15:51–54

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Jesus is the only One who can save people. No one else in the world [on the earth] is able to save us’ ” (Acts 4:12, ICB).

IN 1888, Seventh-day Adventist pastors and church leaders dis- agreed with each other over some important Bible verses and what they meant. These pastors and church leaders disagreed about what the ten horns in Daniel 7 meant and what the law in Galatians 3:24 really meant. At that time, very few of these Adventists really understood how their unfriendly behavior hurt their friendships with each other. In the end, their rude behavior hurt the peace in the church and the work that God gave them to do on earth.

This problem in the church made Ellen White very sad. She asked the people who were part of the talks to think carefully about their connection with Jesus. They should show their love for Jesus, even when they disagreed with each other. She also said that we should not expect everyone in the church to agree all the time about how to explain every Bible verse.

But Ellen White also said that we should try to agree with each other about how to understand important Adventist beliefs (read Ellen G. White, Counsels [advice] to Writers and Editors, pages 28–32). This week, we will study some very important Bible truths that make us Seventh-day Adventists. These truths help us agree with each other about what we believe.
