---
title:  Jesus Saves Us
date:   18/11/2018
---

Seventh-day Adventists and other Christians share many beliefs. But Seventh-day Adventists believe in truths that no other Christian church on earth preaches. These truths help show everyone who we are. They show everyone that God chose us to be His special people with an important truth for the end time.

`In Acts 4:8–12 and Acts 10:43, Peter talks about how important Jesus is to God’s plan to save us. In Peter’s eyes, is Jesus important to God’s plan? If yes, how much?`

In his Second Letter to the Corinthian church, Paul told the church some Good News. The Good News is that “God was in Christ, making peace between the world and himself” (2 Corinthians 5:19, ERV). This verse tells us that Jesus’ death makes peace between us and God the Father. Sin and death separated us from the Father. But Jesus’ death is a “bridge.” His death connects us with the Father again. Jesus’ work of ending our separation from God and connecting us with Him again has a special name. This work is named “atonement.” “Atonement” is an old word. It used to mean “agreement.” The word “atonement” describes the peace we have in our connections with other people. When we disagree and fight with our friends and the people we love, then we need peace to heal us. Jesus gives us atone- ment so that we can get this peace. The agreement and peace we see and feel in the church are gifts. These gifts come from Jesus’ work to end sin and separation between us and God. Jesus wants to help us connect with God and each other again.

What do the verses below teach us about Jesus’ death and His waking up from the dead? How important are they to the work God gave our church to do?

`Romans 3:24-25`

`1 John 2:2`

`1 John 4:9-10`

`1 Peter 2:21–24`
