---
title:  Jesus' Second Coming
date:   19/11/2018
---

The first Christians in New Testament times wait for Jesus’ Second Coming. To them, His Second Coming is “the blessed hope” (Titus 2:13, NIrV). They believe that everything the Bible promises will come true at that Second Coming. Seventh-day Adventists also share this belief. Our name “Adventist” clearly shows that we do. “Adventist” means a person waiting for Jesus’ Second Coming. All people who love Jesus believe that they will talk with Jesus in person. Until Jesus comes back, our belief in the Second Coming helps us to stay together in agreement.

`Acts 1:11; Matthew 24:26, 27; Revelation 1:7; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18; and Revelation 19:11–16 talk about Jesus’ Second Coming. What do these verses teach us about His Coming? How is this teaching different from what many other Christians teach about Jesus’ Second Coming?`

Again and again, the Bible tells us that Jesus will come back to take His people to heaven. But we should not try to guess when that will happen. Jesus Himself said that no one but God the Father knows when the Second Coming will happen (Matthew 24:36).

Near the end of His work on earth, Jesus told the picture story about the “ten girls” (Matthew 25:1–13, ERV). Jesus used this picture story to describe the church while it waits for Him to come back. There are two groups of girls in this picture story. The two groups show us the two different groups of believers who say that they wait for Jesus. On the outside, both groups of girls seem the same. But Jesus comes later than all the girls think or expect. Then we see that the two groups of girls are really different. One group kept their hope for the Second Coming alive. They believed Jesus was coming back soon. So, they got ready. Jesus used this picture story to help His followers understand that they must trust God’s promise even when there seems to be no proof that it will happen. Today, Jesus invites us also to “watch” and be ready at any time for Him to come back.

`Our name “Seventh-day Adventist” shows everyone that the Second Coming is important to us. How can we keep our hope strong in the Second Coming? We do not want to make the same mistake as the ten girls. How can we stay ready?`
