---
title:  The Sabbath
date:   21/11/2018
---

The Sabbath is another Bible truth that Seventh-day Adventists believe. The Sabbath is an important teaching that leads to Christian friendship in the church and unity. Unity is agreement. It means that Jesus joins us as one in mind, heart, and the truth. Adventists are one of the few Christian churches that believe in the Sabbath truth.

The Sabbath is God’s gift to humans. God gave the Sabbath to humans when He made the earth (Genesis 2:1–3). During the week that God made the earth, He did three things to make the Sabbath special. (1) God rested on the Sabbath from His work of making the earth. (2) God blessed the Sabbath day. (3) God made the Sabbath holy. These three actions separated the Sabbath as God’s special gift to humans. The Sabbath helped humans to experience heaven on earth. The Sabbath also helps us to remember the truth that God made the earth in six days. A famous rabbi, or Jewish teacher, has named the Sabbath “a palace in time.” That means the Sabbath is a holy day when God meets with His people in a special way.

`Exodus 20:8–11; Deuteronomy 5:12–15; and Ezekiel 20:12, 20 talk about the meaning of the Sabbath. What do these verses say that the Sabbath means to humans?`

As Seventh-day Adventists, we wish to follow Jesus’ example (Luke 4:16). That is why we keep the seventh-day Sabbath holy. Jesus worshiped on the Sabbath. His example shows us that He honored the Sabbath as a day of rest and worship. Jesus did some of His miracles on the Sabbath to show us that healing the body and the spirit is a celebration of the Sabbath (read Luke 13:10–17). The church leaders and believers in New Testament times understood that Jesus did not get rid of the Sabbath. So, they kept the Sabbath and worshiped on that day (Acts 13:14, 42, 44; Acts 16:13; Acts 17:2; Acts 18:4).

Another beautiful part of the Sabbath truth is that it is a word picture that shows us how Jesus frees us from sin. The Sabbath continues to promise us that “God’s people have a complete rest waiting for them” (Hebrews 4:9, NLV). All people who want to rest can enjoy that rest now by believing that Jesus saves them. Our keeping the Sabbath shows everyone that we have faith in Jesus alone to save us from sin and give us everlasting life (read Hebrews 4:10)
