---
title:  Death and Everlasting Life
date:   22/11/2018
---

God made the heavens and the earth in one week. At the end of that week, God made man. The Bible describes how that happened: “Then the Lord God made man from the dust of the ground. And He breathed into his nose the breath of life. Man became a living being” (Genesis 2:7, NLV). This story shows us that human life came from God. But God lives forever. So, does that mean that the spirit in us never dies too? No. The Bible tells us that God is the only One who does not die (1 Timothy 6:16). The gift of everlasting life is not given to humans when they are born. The Bible tells us that our human lives are the same as “a fog. You can see it for a short time, but then it goes away” (James 4:14, ERV). When we die, our spirits sleep. We do not think or feel anything anymore after we die (read Ecclesiastes 9:5, 6, 10; Psalm 146:4; Psalm 115:17; John 11:11–15).

Humans do not live forever. They will die. But the Bible tells us that Jesus gives the gift of everlasting life to every- one who believes that He saves them (Romans 6:23; 2 Timothy 1:10; John 3:16). So, we do have hope that there is life after death.

`1 Corinthians 15:51–54 and 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18 talk about life after death. What do they say about it? When do these verses say that God will give everlasting life to humans?`

Paul makes it clear that God does not give everlasting life to people when they die. No, God gives people everlasting life at the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when Jesus will wake up the dead at His Second Coming when the last trumpet shall be blown. God gives believers the promise of everlasting life when they accept Jesus as their Savior. But God gives us the gift of everlasting life when the resurrection happens. The New Testament does not teach the false idea that spirits go to heaven when they die. This teaching is a lie. Where did this false teaching come from? The Greeks in early Bible times taught this lie. This false teaching is not found in either the Old or the New Testament.

`How does the Bible teaching about death help us trust even more fully in the promise about the Second Coming?`
