---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   23/11/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Foundations, Pillars [a stone support or post; a word picture for church teachings], and Landmarks [an important time in history],” pages 28–32, in Counsels [advice] to Writers and Editors . Read the article “Doctrines [church teachings], Importance [how important something is] of,” pages 778, 779, in The Ellen G . White Encyclopedia .

As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe many of the same teachings that other Christians believe. The most important teaching of all is our belief that God saves us because of our faith in Jesus’ death on the cross for us. Along with other Christians, we believe that we are not made right with God because of our own good behavior. Jesus makes us right with God. God accepts us because Jesus obeyed God and lived a holy life. God accepts Jesus’ holy life in place of our lives of sin. Because of our faith, Jesus’ holy life replaces our lives of sin. We do nothing to earn this gift.

As Ellen G. White writes, “Jesus accepted the punishment that we should get. Jesus took our punishment so that we could get everlasting life. Jesus was found guilty for our sins and killed. Jesus did nothing to earn that punishment. But He accepted death on a cross because He wanted His holy life to make us right with God. We did nothing good to earn the gift of Jesus’ holy life. But Jesus accepted the death that was ours. Why? Because He wanted to give us the life that belongs to Him.”—The Desire of Ages, page 25, adapted. At the same time, our beliefs and our way of life make us different from all other Christian churches. God wants us to be different so that we will show everyone on earth who He really is. Our love for Jesus and our special teachings should be the most powerful things that join us as one in Jesus.

**Discussion Questions**

`1 In Faith and Works, page 103, Ellen G. White says that our being made right with God is the same thing as God forgiving our sins. Why is our being made right with God and His forgiveness the foundation for all our friendships in the church?`

`2 Our church teachings are very important. How has God used them to bring so many different people together as one? What does that tell us about how important our teachings are for agreement in the church?`
