---
title:  The Habits of a Steward
date:   17/03/2018
---

**Introduction:** Matt. 6:33

### The View From Row 27

I’m enjoying the view from my window seat in row 27. We’re on the descent toward London. The river Thames is a silver snake winding through the eastern edge of the metropolis. I can see golf courses with sandy hollows and outdoor swimming pools that sparkle like polished turquoise. I can see the iconic white roof of the Millennium Dome and count the bridges that stitch the riverbanks together. Buckingham Palace is so small I can tuck it into my pocket, and the London Eye is like a wheel from a toy construction kit.

**His vision is more microscopic than mine.**

We follow the river west toward Heathrow Airport, past the colorful paint box of Kew Gardens and the neat angles of Hampton Court Palace. I look up from my sightseeing and admire the long view. I can see white-whipped clouds and pure light rays. Beyond the wing, I can see the sun charring the horizon, hundreds of miles from here.

I enjoy the metaperspective from seat 27A. It gives me a little insight into God’s view of me, the future, the world, and my place in it all. When I’m on the ground, my life is all around me. It fills my vision, and I can only see as far as my four walls. Up here, everything I own looks small, like a tiny shell on a wave-washed beach.

However, sometimes I like to sit in a different seat. It’s the one next to God. I look at the world from His perspective, which is far more detailed than the view from row 27. When I look through God’s eyes and find my place in the universe, everything I think I own is pretty insignificant. I see how I fit into the community and landscape around me. I see other people’s needs, not just my own wants. I see Him looking ahead, longing to put an end to the suffering He witnesses everywhere, every minute of every day, in everyone’s lives.

I turn and look into His face. There are tears in His eyes as He gazes at the world. His vision is more microscopic than mine. He can see into each person’s life—their struggles, hopes, loneliness, fears, and tears.

“Karen.” He looks deep into my heart. “I can see them, but they can’t see Me. It’s your responsibility to use everything I’ve given you—your gifts, time, resources, energy, love . . . everything. Pour it generously into the lives of everyone you meet. That’s the best way for them to see how much I love them. And don’t worry about anything. The more you pour out, the more I’ll top you up. Together, we can make a difference. Trust Me.”

_Karen Holford, Hemel Hempstead, United Kingdom_

