---
title:  Serving Purposes
date:   18/03/2018
---

**Evidence:** Matt. 22:37, 38

Peter Block offers a succinct trilogy: “Stewardship is to honour that which is given, to use power with a sense of grace, and to serve purposes greater than oneself.”1

Honor that which is given. It might seem obvious, but the natural and created world comes to us as a gift on the day we are born. Our choice is to decide whether the gift we pass on will be a better and more generous offering than the one we received. Our privilege is to honor this legacy by virtue of a response to the Giver. In contrast with the exchange economy where people quantify time, skills, and materials with token value and assign ownership over them, the gift economy acknowledges that we are God’s tenants and that true value is not monetized but inherent in our relationship with God, our families, and society at large.

**“Stewardship is to honour that which is given, to use power with a sense of grace, and to serve purposes greater than oneself.”**

Use power with a sense of grace. Stewardship is a responsibility for the use of authority and power in the roles stewards are called to fill. Stewards are conscious of the footprint they leave on the environment and gentle in handling the conflicts and tensions that impact people. The challenge for the Christian is to develop the skills and spiritual presence in such a way that the deployment of power happens with the grace and serenity of a ballet dancer.

Serve purposes greater than oneself. A prevailing assumption of popular economics is that we work best when we work for ourselves. There is a belief that we are driven by greed and avarice and that poverty is best remediated by trickle-down money. While it is true that people are responsive to rewards, the Christian identifies with purposes that are greater than immediate selfinterest. To quote John Kennedy, “Ask not what your country can do for you— ask what you can do for your country.”2 Put another way, our prayers are not concentrated on what God can do for us but listening for that which God would have us do and being willing to do it. That is stewardship.

**REACT**

`How can you hold power and grace in the same hand?`

<sub>1. Peter Block, Stewardship: Choosing Service Over Self-Interest (Portland, Ore.: Read- HowYouWant Publishers, 2014), p. 22.</sub>

<sub>2. John Fitzgerald Kennedy, “Inaugural Address (20 January 1961),” Voices of Democracy, http://voicesofdemocracy.umd.edu/kennedy-inaugural-address-speech-text/.</sub>

_Victor Pilmoor, Watford, United Kingdom_

