---
title:  Habits of a Lifetime
date:   19/03/2018
---

**Logos:** Jer. 29:13; Heb. 11:10; Eph. 5:16; 1 Thess. 5:23; 1 Tim. 4:7

**Seek God First (Jer. 29:13)**

“It requires a minimum of about 21 days for an old mental image to dissolve and new one to jell.” Maxwell Maltz published this quote and others on behavior change in a book called Psycho-Cyber netics in 1960. More recent research suggests that it takes about 66 days (or more than two months) for new behavior to become automatic.

Christian stewardship is about developing habits that will eventually become an integral part of a lifestyle. Seeking God first needs to be a habit that is so well cultivated that eventually it comes naturally, but how do we seek and find God with our whole heart?

**Seeking God first needs to be a habit that is so well cultivated that eventually it comes naturally.**

There are three steps to seek God. First, we must acknowledge that we have a need for God and that without Him we will never be fulfilled. This is done through prayerful soul searching. John Wesley said, “ We have need daily to retire from the world, at least morning and evening, to converse with God, to commune more freely with our Father which is secret.”1 Then, we need to “forsake all others.” This means that God has center stage in our lives and that submission to His will is our primary concern. Last, we need to maintain our relationship with Jesus Christ. To do this requires quality time and effort. It’s not simply enough to read the Bible; it is necessary to prayerfully study the Word so that we are convicted of our wrongdoings and desire that the Father changes our thinking and behavior and so we are inspired to serve.

**Look for Jesus’ Return (Heb. 11:10)**

Hebrews 11 has been nicknamed the “Hall of Faith,” for detailed in this chapter is a list of people who believed that the impossible was possible through Jesus Christ. Abraham’s faith enabled him to believe that he would have a son as an old man; but it’s also important to examine his belief in the end of this sinful world because he “was confidently looking forward to a city with eternal foundations . . . built by God” (Heb. 11:10, NLT).

The story is told of three apprentice devils who were preparing to graduate. Each one presented their thesis on how they would destroy humanity. The first candidate said that he would tell the people that there was no God, and the second’s idea was to tell them that there was no hell. The third one’s thesis won the day because he stated that he would tell the people that there was no need to make hasty decisions and that they had all the time in the world.2

Good stewards know that one day they will need to give account to their Master, so they make daily decisions for the Lord in preparation for His return.

**Use Time Wisely (Eph. 5:16)**

The apostle Paul, in Ephesians 5:16, encourages us to be “making the most of every opportunity” (NIV). A diligent steward knows that time is one of the most precious commodities given to humans and manages his time as to make every minute count. Many young people in the twenty-first century squander numerous hours each day being entertained by the “gods of technology,” who demand much time and attention. The Scriptures encourage us to treat our time as a gift from God to be cherished. The psalmist David equates time with a “handbreadth” (Ps. 39:5), the patriarch Job describes time as “a shadow” (Job 8:9), and the apostle James says that time is “even a vapour” (James 4:14).

**Keep a Healthy Mind, Body, and Soul (1 Thess. 5:23)**

Faithful stewards foster healthy habits that include not only their physical health but their mental well-being and spirituality. They are fit, well, and strong; they nurture a positive and resilient attitude to the challenges of everyday life and are in a constant state of awareness of the presence of God and that “some days, although we cannot pray, a prayer utters itself . . . and although we are faithless, the truth enters our hearts.”3 Keeping a healthy body means that a steward has to manage his or her diet and regularly incorporate exercise into his or her lifestyle, along with large doses of sunlight. When we are hydrated with water, we not only clean our bodies but invigorate our minds, together with sufficient sleep. Your trust and faith in the Father develops the soul. Therefore, body, mind, and soul are “kept healthy and faultless” (1 Thess. 5:23, CEV).

**Self-Discipline (1 Tim. 4:7)**

“Workouts in the gymnasium are useful, but a disciplined life in God is far more so, making you fit today and forever” (1 Tim. 4:7, The Message). At the beginning of King Solomon’s life, the wisest man who ever lived led an ordered and restrained life. However, over time he lost his self-control and “his heart was not loyal to the Lord his God” (1 Kings 11:4, NKJV). Good stewards understand the value of self-control, choosing integrity over gratification, and do not allow their earthly cravings and desires to deter them from their heavenly goal.

**REACT**

`What are some of the habits of a good steward? Consider your current lifestyle. In what ways are you striving to seek God first?`

<sub>1. John Wesley, The Works of the Reverend John Wesley, vol. 1 (New York: The Methodist Book Concern, 1831), p. 212.</sub>

<sub>2. Story adapted from Dr. Hyveth Williams, Anticipation, Waiting on Tiptoes for the Lord (Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press®, 2000).</sub>

<sub>3. Carol Ann Duffy, “Prayer,” Selected Poems (New York: Penguin Global, 2009), p. 91.</sub>

_Catherine Anthony Boldeau, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom_