---
title:  Spending Time
date:   20/03/2018
---

**Testimony:** Eph. 5:15, 16

“The talent of time is precious. Every day it is given to us in trust, and we shall be called upon to give an account of it to God. It is to be used to God’s glory, and if we would prolong our lives, if we would gain the life that measures with the life of God, we must give the mind pure food. No time should be wasted that might have been used to good account.”1

**“It is the duty of every Christian to acquire habits of order, thoroughness, and dispatch.”**

“Upon the right improvement of our time depends our success in acquiring knowledge and mental culture. The cultivation of the intellect need not be prevented by poverty, humble origin, or unfavorable surroundings. Only let the moments be treasured. A few moments here and a few there, that might be frittered away in aimless talk; the morning hours so often wasted in bed; the time spent in traveling on the trams or railway cars, or waiting at the station; the moments of waiting for meals, waiting for those who are tardy in keeping an appointment—if a book were kept at hand, and these fragments of time were improved in study, reading, or careful thought, what might not be accomplished. A resolute purpose, persistent industry, and careful economy of time, will enable men to acquire knowledge and mental discipline which will qualify them for almost any position of influence and usefulness.

“It is the duty of every Christian to acquire habits of order, thoroughness, and dispatch. . . . Decide how long a time is required for a given task, and then bend every effort toward accomplishing the work in the given time. The exercise of the willpower will make the hands move deftly.”2

“It is wrong to waste our time, wrong to waste our thoughts. We lose every moment that we devote to self-seeking. If every moment were valued and rightly employed, we should have time for everything that we need to do for ourselves or for the wor ld. In the expenditure of money, in the use of time, strength, opportunities, let every Christian look to God for guidance.”3

**REACT**

`1. What are the three biggest challenges you face in your use of time?`

`2. Plan to spend at least ten to thirty minutes a day doing things that will help other people understand how much God loves them.`

<sub>1. Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 1, p. 358.</sub>

<sub>2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 343, 344.</sub>

<sub>3. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 208.</sub>

_Bernie Holford, Hemel Hempstead, United Kingdom_

