---
title:  Christian Stewardship Made Easy
date:   21/03/2018
---

**How-to:** Exod. 20:3; Eccles. 3:1; Luke 12:41–48; 1 Cor. 9:25–27; 1 Thess. 5:23

Becoming one of God’s stewards doesn’t happen by accident. It’s a role God and you choose jointly. Developing the five habits listed below will help enormously in developing a life of good Christian stewardship. Ask God to lead you into forming these five good habits.

*Habit 1:* Put God first. Start and end your day with God (prayer, worship, and Bible study). Prioritize: put God before Facebook, fashion, phones, and whatever else gets between you and God. Make Jesus’ command (see Matt. 22:37, quoting from Deut. 6:5) your delight. It takes time and self-discipline to develop your priorities. Make the effort (yes, it will be a struggle), and you’ll be amazed at the blessings you gain as a result.

**It’s a role God and you choose jointly.**

*Habit 2:* Develop self-discipline. No one else can do it for you, but it’s vitally important both in life generally and in serving God. Paul (1 Tim. 4:7, 8) and Peter (1 Pet. 1:13) clearly had strong views on this. Consider how God used them to change the world once they had learned to discipline themselves under God’s controlling influence.

*Habit 3:* Stay healthy—physically, mentally, and spiritually. Note the advice given in 1 Corinthians 6:19 and Philippians 4:8. You can’t do your best job for God (or anyone else) if your body, brain, and spirit are underperforming. The Seventh-day Adventist health message tells you how to get and stay healthy. Search the Web and discover how to get all your faculties in the best possible shape. It’ll surprise you just how much better you can make yourself feel and perform.

*Habit 4:* Manage your time well. Ask God to guide you as you make out your daily, monthly, annual, and lifelong time plans (see James 4:13–15). In today’s overly busy world, time management is of crucial importance. Making and following a good time plan is the best way to get things done, reduce stress, succeed in life—and have time for God.

*Habit 5:* Be a Jesus steward—always. By now you should be discovering your gifts (talents). Use them or you’ll lose them. Choose to use them for God. The way to grow God’s kingdom is to work in and for it. That’s what good stewardship is all about.

**REACT**

`Make an action plan to develop a lifestyle of Christian stewardship. What’s in your plan? What have you left out? Buddy up with some pals and work as a team to put your plans into practice. Start today!`

_Mike Lewis, Crieff, Scotland_

