---
title:  Under New Management
date:   22/03/2018
---

**Opinion:** Gal. 2:20

Of all the Scripture passages that help me grow daily on my Christian journey, Galatians 2:20 is the key. It’s not a promise of hope, not a text of comfort, but a statement of my condition as a follower of Christ. “It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me” (NKJV). The metaphor I like to use is that of Christ managing my life. I am more than happy for Him to be my manager. The Person and Presence of Christ living in me allows for the supernatural to take over and manage my life. What more could I possibly want?

**“Take my life and let it be, / Consecrated, Lord, to Thee.”**

Everything would be perfect if it weren’t for the line “And the life which I now live in the flesh” (NKJV). You mean to say there’s a problem with “the flesh”? Hmm, that’s a bit of a struggle at times. I love Paul’s letters for their honesty, but the moment he raises a problem, he finds the solution. The solution: “I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me” (NKJV).

Anglican theologian John Stott defines grace as “love that cares and stoops and rescues.”1 In the context of stewardship, this is where the conversation starts. Since God has been so good to me, giving me Christ, then my response is to give my whole life back to God.

In soccer, the role of the manager is critical. When English club Manchester United was successful, it was because of the leadership skills of the manager, Sir Alex Ferguson. Under him, Manchester United was at its peak—the glory days, gaining cups and trophies every season!

Imagine what would happen to the church in our sphere of influence if we invited the Lord to be our Manager in a new, refreshing, and joyful way. What if we let Him take the lead to break through beyond slogans, religious clichés, and even our corporate strategy? Imagine a church—our church—where the problems of leadership, membership decline, lack of commitment, poor finances, and fragmentation were only historical conversations, because God is totally in charge.

Frances R. Havergal’s hymn summarizes the essence of Christian stewardship: “Take my life and let it be, / Consecrated, Lord, to Thee.” 2 I hope that I won’t just understand its meaning—but live it.

<sub>1. John Stott, quoted in Justin Holcomb, “What Is Grace?” Christianity.com, accessed October 17, 2016, http://www.christianity.com/theology/what-is-grace.html.</sub>

<sub>2. Frances R. Havergal, “Take My Life and Let It Be,” Timeless Truths, accessed October 17, 2016, http://library.timelesstruths.org/music/Take_My_Life_and_Let_It_Be/.</sub>

_Dave Neal, St. Albans, United Kingdom_

