---
title:  Practical Stewardship
date:   23/03/2018
---

**Exploration:** Matt. 6:33

**CONCLUDE**

Stewardship takes commitment and discipline. Its application is twofold. You must fill up to pour out. Despite the daily distractions of technology and life’s demands, we are called to slow down and visualize things from a horizontal and vertical perspective. Life is more than the pursuit of earthly success. The real stakes lie in the question, Have I spent time investing in my neighbors, friends, and family to give them the insurance coverage of life eternal? Funny, stewardship is otherscentered, yet at the heart of it, you fill up first so that you can be poured out.

**CONSIDER**

- Spending ten minutes each day getting to know something new about a friend, coworker, or a stranger. Ask questions and listen to understand things from their perspective. At the end of the week, write down all you have learned and analyze how you can use your talent to be a blessing in one person’s life.
- Starting an exercise routine, even if it is only ten minutes per day. A healthy body leads to a healthy mind.
- Going to a park or a green space to just relax. Pick one verse in the Bible and ask God to show you how to apply it.
- Singing for children or the elderly in hospitals, nursing homes, and so on.
- Getting involved in a community outreach project.
- Analyzing your Christian walk and writing a prayer outlining what you enjoy and areas you would like God to improve.

**CONNECT**

Jeremiah 29:13; Psalm 90:10, 12; Philippians 4:8; 1 Corinthians 9:24– 27.

Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, chapter 23, “The Principles of Stewardship”; Historical Sketches of the Foreign Mission of the Seventhday Adventists, “Our Duty to the Missionary Work.”

_Elaine Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada._