---
title:  My Other Mind
date:   12/04/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 12

**My Other Mind**

One Sabbath, an associate pastor at my church made a special appeal. He asked everyone to take a selfie with someone, commit to praying together each day of the following week, and then post their commitment to social media—tagging the church, of course. I teamed up with a teen guy named Derwyn. But there was one hitch in the plan—my cluttered mind. I didn’t trust myself to remember to pray for Derwyn each day, given the multitude of things running through my head at any given moment. As I returned to my seat, I did something I knew would help me remember not to forget my daily prayer meeting with Derwyn. I pulled out my phone and added a reminder to my calendar. Each day at 5:00 a.m. it reminded me to pray for Derwyn. Though several years have passed, I still pray for Derwyn at 5:00 a.m. because my phone reminds me not to forget.

Although people in biblical times lacked electronic devices to help them remember things, they had other ways of remembering. In their culture, where information was passed on orally, they were better at remembering important events, but even they had memory aids for things they never wanted to forget. They had altars of remembrance.

In the Bible, altars to God represent places of consecration and commemoration. They’re outward symbols of one’s personal experience with Him, of one’s acknowledgement and worship of the true and living God. Altars were often built to commemorate encounters with God that had a profound impact on one’s life. When God did something “supernatural” or “super-special,” the recipient of God’s mighty acts memorialized them by building an altar—a place for remembering—on the spot where they had seen God move or heard God speak. This week, we will consider the astounding promise God made Abraham that led him to build an altar of remembrance for himself, his family, and generations to come.

### inScribe

Write out Genesis 12:1–9 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 7, 8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `