---
title:  A Promise Worth Remembering
date:   13/04/2025
---

### inGest

Genesis 12 begins with God making a startling request of Abram: “Pack up your family and everything you own, and go to a place I will show you.” Genesis 11 concluded by informing us that Abram was the son of Terah, a man who had begun a journey to Canaan and settled the family about four hundred miles (644 km) away in a place called Haran. Sometime after Terah died, God appeared to Abram (later called Abraham) to make a covenant with him. God promised to make Abraham’s descendants into a great nation. Abraham’s name would be great (Gen. 12:2), and he would be a blessing to the whole world.

Notice Abraham’s response to God’s solemn promise: At seventy-five years old, comfortably settling into his inheritance, Abraham immediately packed his wife Sarah, their family, his nephew Lot’s family, and all their possessions and set out for the land of Canaan (vv. 4–6). Abraham’s response was immediate obedience! When he reached Canaan, God said, “To your descendants I will give this land” (v. 7). Abraham was so moved by God’s astonishing favor to him, a simple desert wanderer, that his next act was to a build an altar to remember the spot where he had met with God. This altar memorialized the place where God appeared to him (an altar he later returned to in Genesis 13:4). When Abraham departed from that location and pitched his tent near Bethel, he built another altar. Think for a moment about these two altars that Abraham built in relatively quick succession after God spoke to him. These altars symbolized Abraham’s commitment to follow God wherever He led, even away from family and friends. The Bible includes an interesting detail when describing Abraham’s second altar: not only was it built in the “name of the LORD,” but Abraham “called on the name of the LORD” (12:8).

Perhaps the import of God’s promise began to weigh on Abraham as he traveled through Canaan. The second altar suggests Abraham wanted a close relationship with God. He wanted to live a life devoted to God. He wanted to remember God, His promises, and His presence everywhere he went. If ever he passed that way again, he wanted a reminder of all that God had done and was doing for him. Abraham’s devotional life was growing each day as he journeyed with God—one worship altar at a time.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Genesis 12:1–9. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why do you think God made this special covenant with Abraham? What was God’s objective?`

`What does Abraham’s altar building say about how he viewed God’s promise? Explain.`