---
title:  Problem in the Promise
date:   14/04/2025
---

### inTerpret

Genesis 12:6 says when Abraham got close to the promised land, “the Canaanites were then in the land.” This fact alone must have filled Abraham with dread. This was not a welcoming place. The Canaanites were a devastatingly cruel and corrupt people. Even with the promise God had made, Abraham had traded the peace and safety of Haran for a land filled with problems and threats. This place of spiritual blessing was filled with problems Abraham couldn’t fix. In this land of danger, Abraham would learn to trust God’s promises. Along the way, however, God knew Abraham needed reassurance, so He said, “Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield” (15:1). This simple and powerful statement speaks to God’s willingness to meet us where we are.
His plans for the future are sure, but He knows how difficult it can be to walk by faith alone when we encounter things we know we can’t handle in our own strength. He wants to give us extra encouragement when we need it.

A hidden subtext of this narrative is God’s desire to make Abraham’s descendants into a holy nation that would extend His righteousness to a sinful world, calling all lost human beings into a saving relationship with Him. From the beginning, God had told Abraham, “In you all the families of the earth shall be blessed” (12:3). Abraham didn’t fully grasp the implications of God’s covenant with him, but he knew he needed a closer relationship with God. As he looked at the corrupt world around him, Abraham decided to spend more time in prayer, more time in worship—more time with God. People recognized the close spiritual connection he cultivated; “he was called the friend of God” (James 2:23). Ellen White comments powerfully on the impact of Abraham’s prayer life and the public testimony of the altars he built: “The life of Abraham, the friend of God, was a life of prayer. Wherever he pitched his tent, close beside it was built an altar, upon which was offered the morning and evening sacrifice. When his tent was removed, the altar remained. And the roving Canaanite, as he came to that altar, knew who had been there; and when he had pitched his tent, he repaired the altar and worshiped the living God” (My Life Today [1952], 35). Abraham’s altars were not just for himself. Canaanites who encountered his altars would know he had been there and would learn about the God he worshiped. Abraham’s altars were one of God’s ways of evangelizing the people Abraham feared. Our devotional walk with God should lead others to worship Him.

It may have been tempting for Abraham to hide his altars so that he might better blend in with his Canaanite neighbors, but Abraham let these altars be a visible sign that his allegiance was to the God of heaven, no matter what kind of idolatry was popular in Canaan.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How have you been impacted by other people’s devotional lives?`