---
title:  A Helper Appears
date:   16/04/2025
---

### inVite

Genesis 13:1–18 confirms that Abraham’s altar-building became a regular feature of his life. Faced with increasing strife between his herdsmen and those of his nephew Lot, Abraham offered Lot the pick of the land, agreeing to take whatever was left (v. 9). This dispute greatly vexed Abraham, likely because he was remembering God’s covenant promise of a homeland. When the issue was settled, Abraham built a peace altar in Mamre to remember the God who had relieved the tension and restored peace (v. 18). Abraham’s altar became a memorial to how God had helped him.

In Genesis 22, Abraham faced the greatest crisis of his life. God asked him to sacrifice his son Isaac, the son through whom the promise would be realized. Amazingly, Abraham answered this extreme test of faith with extreme obedience. He built an altar and laid his son on it. When an angel stopped Abraham, God provided a ram to sacrifice in Isaac’s place (v. 13)—a prefiguring of Jesus, the Lamb of God, who would give His life for sinful human beings (John 1:29). Abraham called the place “The-LORD-Will-Provide” (Gen. 22:14), for God had miraculously provided for him again. Abraham learned to rely on God as his Helper in times of terrible crisis. The altar on Mount Moriah would always remind Abraham of how God provided a substitute sacrifice at the right time.

Many times we worship God without really thinking about all the things He has done and is doing for us (Ps. 103:2). One of the best ways to memorialize God’s goodness is to name the place where God did something special for you. Some who are musically inclined write songs to God to commemorate His goodness in their lives. My mother, an excellent cook, prepares tasty dishes and gives them to people in need when God blesses her. Her cooking is the fruit of her connection with God, and she uses it to bless others. Many journal their lives with God to keep a record of His mighty acts on their behalf. It’s also powerful when someone expresses what God has done for them in a testimony of praise at church, prayer meeting, in private conversation, etc. Often, when we verbalize our thanks, it deepens the memory of God’s goodness in our own minds. Methods may vary, but remembering is always key for a vibrant friendship with God.

### Journal

`Meditate on Genesis 12 again and look for Jesus.`

`What can you do to remember the wonderful Helper who’s supporting you through life?`

`Prayer Response:`