---
title: 'A Community Of Servants'
date: 21/09/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Corinthians 2:14–16; Revelation 12:17; 1 Peter 2:12; Ephesians 2:19; Hebrews 10:23–25.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Let us hold firmly to the hope that we have confessed [believed in]. We can trust God to do what he promised” (Hebrews 10:23, ICB). 

JESUS GAVE US WORK TO DO before He comes back. So, it is important for us to work together with other believers in the church. Then it will be easier to get our work done. We already learned about the problems that we must solve when we help the poor and needy. But when we work with fellow believers, we can do our job better. Then we will be a bigger blessing to the people around us.

We need to be careful. When we get together as a church, it is easy to forget why God made the church. One reason that God made our church is because He wants the church to serve the people in our communities. As a church, we must pay attention to the people who are suffering all around us. We must do what Jesus asked. We must share the Good News about Him with other people. At the same time, we must help the hungry, the helpless, and the poor.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church and its members are the body of Jesus (read 1 Corinthians 12:12–20). So, we should walk as Jesus walked. We should do what Jesus did. We must be Jesus’ hands, feet, voice, and heart on this earth today. 

*One reason God made our church is because He wants the church to serve the people in our communities.*