---
title: 'The Perfume Of Life'
date: 22/09/2019
---

We read about the first Christians in the book of Acts. They started a new community. This community was different from other communities on the earth. The Christian community took care of needy members in their church. The Christians also offered help to people who were not members of their church. The Christians invited the people they helped to join their church.

Paul uses many word pictures to show us how the New Testament believers made their communities better. Paul says that the New Testament believers were a “living and holy gift” (Romans 12:1, NLV). These believers were an offering given to God. Paul also says God’s people are Jesus’ body (1 Corinthians 12:12–20). God’s people are His messengers (2 Corinthians 5:18–20). They are the same as His perfume (2 Corinthians 2:14–16).

`Think about Paul’s word pictures for Christians. Which word picture is your favorite? Why? Which word picture best shows the picture of God that you wish to show to your community?`

Do you see that each of Paul’s word pictures shows us two things? Each word picture shows us who God’s people are and what they do for God. Remember, we cannot earn God’s favor. God saves us because we have faith in Jesus’ death for our sins. We serve God because He saves us.

Paul’s word pictures show us what God’s kingdom is all about. God’s kingdom is about love and grace. Grace is God’s gift to us of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. What happens when we show God’s grace to other people? We show that we are a part of God’s kingdom now. Our example helps people to see that God will destroy evil in the end. As Jesus’ messengers, we can live the truth about God’s love in our own church. We can show that He is fair. We can show this truth to the people we serve in this life. 

`Read about the perfume again: “To those [people] who are being lost, this perfume smells like [the same as] death, and it brings them death. But to those [people] who are being saved, it has the sweet smell of life, and it brings them life” (2 Corinthians 2:16, ERV). The perfume as we saw, is a word picture for God’s people. How is your life the same as perfume that has a sweet smell?`

*God’s people are the same as perfume.*