---
title:  GOD’S SPECIAL END-TIME PEOPLE
date:   23/09/2019
---

God’s special end-time church is named His remnant. A remnant is a word picture for a small piece of cloth leftover from a large roll of cloth. Revelation 12:17 shows us who God’s remnant people are: “They are the ones who obey the Laws of God and are faithful [obedient] to the teachings of Jesus” (Revelation 12:17, NLV). The Bible stories show us how God’s remnant behaves. These stories also show us how God’s remnant serves other people.

`Moses is a powerful example. He shows us how God’s remnant people should behave. Read about Moses in Exodus 32:1–14. How is Moses the same as God’s remnant people in Revelation 12:17?`

God was very angry at Israel. He wanted to destroy them. Then He wanted to give to Moses and his family everything He promised to Abraham. God promised to make Abraham’s future children a powerful people (Exodus 32:10).	

But Moses says no. Moses tells God not to destroy His people. If God does, He will look bad in the eyes of people who did not know God (read Exodus 32:11–13). But Moses does not stop there. You will remember from the book of Exodus that Moses led God’s people out of Egypt. Moses’ job was not easy. What happened almost as soon as Moses led God’s people to freedom? They started to complain. But what does Moses do? Does he complain about them? No. Does he tell God to destroy His people? No. Moses says, “ ‘Now, forgive them of this sin. If you will not forgive them, then erase my name from your book [of life]’ ” (Exodus 32:32, ERV). Wow! Moses offers to give up his everlasting life to save God’s people! Moses is a powerful example of God’s love for people who are not worthy of that love. Moses also is a powerful word picture for God’s plan to save us!

“Moses asked God to save Israel. Moses’ love for God’s people was so strong that it made him brave. He cared very much for God’s people. Moses had done so much to help them too. The Lord heard Moses’ unselfish prayer. The Lord gave Moses what he asked for. God tested Moses. This test showed what was in Moses’ heart. Moses’ heart was full of faith in God and love for God’s people.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Old Testament fathers and leaders] and Prophets [special messengers], page 319, adapted. 

*God’s special end-time church is named His remnant. A remnant is a word picture for a small piece of cloth leftover from a large roll of cloth.*