---
title: 'Leading People To Jesus'
date: 24/09/2019
---

Sometimes churches argue about the work they should do. Should they share the Good News? Or should they help people in their community? For the answers, we must understand the work that Jesus did on earth. Jesus’ work on earth shows us that there is a close connection between our preaching the Good News and helping other people. 

Ellen G. White has a famous saying that explains this close connection. “Jesus’ plan will give us true success. It is the only plan that will help us save people. Jesus is our Savior. He spent time with people. He wanted what was best for them. He showed them that He cared about them. He served them. He took care of their needs. He won their trust and their hearts. Then He told them, ‘Follow Me.’ . . . 

“We must help the poor who are in need. We must take care of the sick. We must give comfort to the ones who are sad and who have lost loved ones. We must teach the ones who do not know the truth and who do not have understanding. We must give good advice to the ones who need it. We must cry tears with the ones who cry tears. Our hearts must be full of joy for the ones who have reason to be full of joy.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing, page 143, adapted. 

We already saw that sharing the Good News and helping people were important parts of Jesus’ work and His kingdom. Jesus made these two rules of His kingdom an important part of the work He gave His followers. “ ‘As you go, preach this message, “The kingdom of heaven has come near” (Matthew 10:7, NIrV). Then Jesus told them: “ ‘Heal the sick. Bring the dead back to life. Heal the people who have leprosy [bad skin diseases]. And force demons out of people. I give you these powers freely, so help others freely’ ” (Matthew 10:8, ERV). So, what is one of the best ways of sharing God’s message with other people? Take care of their needs.

`Read 1 Peter 2:12 and Philippians 2:15. In these verses, Peter and Paul tell us that our good works have the power to witness about God to other people. How?`

Our wish to be fair and to share the Good News starts with our understanding that God loves sinners. Then we work with God to help other people with the gifts He gives us.

*“Jesus . . . won their trust and their hearts. Then He told them, ‘Follow Me.’ ”*