---
title: 'Mercy And Forgiveness In The Church'
date: 25/09/2019
---

Look at Job 1:8. In this verse, God says that Job is a man of faith and obedience. Job’s loyalty to God shows that God’s ways are good. God is fair in His actions with sinners. Paul tells us that the church also is an example that shows people who God is: “His purpose [plan] was that all the rulers and powers in the heavenly places will now know the many different ways he shows his wisdom. They will know this because of the church” (Ephesians 3:10, ERV).

`Read Ephesians 2:19, ERV. In this verse, Paul talks about “God’s family.” “God’s family” is a word picture for God’s church. How does this word picture help us understand what God’s church is and the way it should work?`

If you want to know about a community, look at its members. Is the community kind to its members? The answer to that question tells us about the community’s beliefs. We are God’s family. We are the body of Jesus. We are a community of believers under the Holy Spirit’s power. God expects wonderful things from His church. So, as a church, we live as examples of God’s love. 

The rules of God’s kingdom should control everything we do. God is fair. We should be fair too. He is a God of mercy and forgiveness. He is a God of love. We should show mercy and forgiveness. We should love other people. The rules of God’s kingdom should guide our church leaders in all the decisions they make. The rules of God’s kingdom also should help us solve problems between members. We must be kind to each other. If we are not, then how can we be kind to people who do not belong to our church?

The church also should be kind to the people who work for the church. We should always be fair to other people. Churches should be safe places. Church members should do what they can to protect their members from danger. Remember, in the New Testament church, members helped support other church family members who were in need. Jesus commanded us to do the same thing. These acts of love will change the church. This love will show other people our faith in God: “ ‘I give you a new command: Love each other. You must love each other just as I loved you. All people will know that you are my followers if you love each other’ ” (John 13:34, 35, ERV).

*The rules of God’s kingdom should help our church leaders in all the decisions they make.*