---
title: 'Encourage Each Other To Do Good Works'
date: 26/09/2019
---

Working for God can be hard for us at times. We may have the deepest wish to help people. We may have a lot of faith. We may believe we are on God’s side. But our earth is filled with sin. Sin makes life difficult. That is why we need a church community. Jesus and His followers showed us an example of what a church community should be. Jesus did not often send people to work alone. But even when He did, His followers soon came back together again. They shared their stories. Their times together made them stronger and gave them hope.

`Read Hebrews 10:23–25. How do verses 23 and 24 help us to understand what verse 25 is saying? What are some of the ways we can “keep on encouraging each other” (Hebrews 10:25, ERV) to show more love and to do good?`

A group of people who work together can get more done than if they each work alone. Remember, we are the body of Jesus (Romans 12:4–6). We all are different parts of the body. But we must work together. When we each do what we do best, we will help one another to make a difference in this life and in the life to come. 

Sometimes things do not turn out the way we expect. So, what do we do? We must trust God. At times, we will see very little change happening. It will look as if nothing we do makes a difference. But we must not lose hope. Paul says, “Let us not become tired of doing good. At the right time we will gather a crop if we don’t [do not] give up. So when we can do good to everyone, let us do it. Let’s [let us] try even harder to do good to the family of believers” (Galatians 6:9, 10, NIrV; read also Hebrews 13:16).

God asks us to fill each other with hope and courage. Yes, the life of faith is hard. But it also is full of joy. Our God and our community will support us during the hard times. That love and support will cause us to invite other people to join our community of faith too. 

`Do you know someone who works hard to stop the suffering of other people? What can you do to encourage this person in the work that he or she does for God?`

*A group of people who work together can get more done than if they each work alone.*