---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   27/09/2019
---

ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “A Faithful Witness,” pages 546–556, in The Acts of the Apostles; “Kindness the Key to Hearts,” pages 81–86, in Welfare Ministry. 

“We must do the same work that Jesus’ followers did. Every Christian should be God’s messenger and servant. We must be kind and loving. We must help people in need of help. With unselfish hearts, we should try to help suffering people. . . .

“We must feed the hungry. We must give clothes to people who do not have any clothes. We must give comfort to people who suffer. We must help the ones who are sad. We must help people who have no hope. We must help them to feel hope again.

“We must show Jesus’ love in doing unselfish work for other people. Our kind acts have more power to change the evil person than do punishment or the courts of law. . . . Often, the hearts of many people grow hard when we scold or blame them for doing wrong. But those same hearts will “melt” when we show them God’s love.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing, pages 104, 106, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. There are many people and groups that work hard to take care of people who are poor and hungry on this earth. What can we do as Seventh-day Adventists to help?`

`2. Can you remember a time when you felt your church community supported you or encouraged you? How did that make you feel? What can you learn from that experience? How can you give that same support and encouragement to other people?`

`3. The support of our church community can help us stay hopeful. What other things can help us not feel “tired of doing good”? (Galatians 6:9, NIrV).`

`4. What are some of the things that the Seventh-day Adventist Church is doing to help people in need? What are we doing as a church to make things fair for people in this life? What can you do to help in this part of the church’s work?`

*“We must help people who have no hope. We must help them to feel hope again.”*