---
title:  The Results of Stewardship
date:   24/03/2018
---

**Introduction:** Phil. 4:19

### Heavenly Father, Heavenly Provider

I never knew how true this was until it happened to me. Do you ever wonder whether God is really there and sees your tears or hears your needs? I remember the day like it was yesterday. I reluctantly told a close friend that I would watch her dog. She said she would pay me, but I had not agreed to do it for the pay. She was my friend, and we had been through a lot together. I would do anything for her.

**To my surprise, there was no need to do so.**

Later, as I returned her sweet fluffy ball of fur, I was just happy that little Lucy was still “happy little Lucy” and that I had kept her alive. I had some errands to do but was not sure how I was going to pay some bills even though it was the deadline for my driver’s license renewal. I was in a rush. I handed Lucy over to her owner, and she insisted that I take some money. I said, “No, it’s OK,” but she insisted. It did not take that much to convince me after I remembered the renewal and that I needed to find a way to pay for it. I thought, Every little bit will help. It couldn’t be much—I had only had the dog for a couple days. I took the rolled-up money from her hand and went on my way. I did not want to look at the money in front of her.

I thought about turning around and heading home, but instead I headed to the emissions testing place. I looked at the charges and started to sweat because I did not think that I had enough money in my account. First, there was a 79.00 dollars renewal fee and another 2.00 dollars line renewal fee, plus the USD 9.00 emissions test, equaling USD 90.00. Where was I going to come up with all this money? I decided to count the money to see whether I could add it to what I had left over in my bank account. To my surprise, there was no need to do so. I had exactly ninety dollars in cash! Praise God for His unfailing mercies and His perfect timing! He will always supply all our needs.

_Heather Maria Jamieson, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_

