---
title:  The Results of Stewardship
date:   25/03/2018
---

**Logos:** Prov. 3:5; Matt. 5:14–16; 7:21–23; Phil. 4:4–13; Titus 1:1; 2:7, 12

**Stewardship and Godliness (Ps. 4:3; 2 Tim. 3:1–9)**

The word godliness and its practice begin with God. We love because God fi rst loved us. We trust because God fi rst showed Himself trustworthy. We share because God fi rst shared with us. Godliness is impossible without God’s initiative because humans can originate nothing without Him. Just as the flashlight’s reflector is useless apart from the lit bulb, so our efforts to achieve Christlike characters are useless apart from God’s first action. When, however, we take the risk of returning God’s love, trusting His care, and passing on His blessings, He rewards our efforts with characters that more perfectly reflect His love. As God surprises us with His trustworthiness and envelops us in His love, He invites us to reciprocate His initiatives—His first acts. Those who accept this invitation are entrusted with ever greater opportunities and responsibilities. The exciting part of this arrangement is the expanding relationship with our heavenly Father that this provides. When earthly fathers spend time with their sons fishing, playing ball, building cabinets for mom, or repairing that son’s first jalopy, their relationship grows stronger. The same is true of our relationship with God. Going through the good and the bad times together strengthens that relationship.

**Allowing God . . . to determine our needs ensures that He will supply them and avoids unnecessary disappointment with Him.**

**Contentment (Rom. 8:28; 1 Tim. 6:5–8; Heb. 13:5)**

Paul wrote that “godliness with contentment is great gain” (1 Tim. 6:6, NKJV). Why this emphasis on contentment with godliness? Contentment exhibits trust in God. It demonstrates that we trust that He who clothed the earth with grass, who feeds the sparrows and the animals of the fi eld, will care for us too. Galatians, 2 Corinthians, and Acts chronicle Paul’s unbelievable trials—beatings, imprisonment, hunger, ridicule, and more. Yet, he found contentment regardless of circumstances. Paul trusted God to supply his needs and determine what those needs were. Too often we determine what our needs are, and our list typically includes more wants than needs. Allowing God—rather than home shows, cosmetic commercials, and car ads—to determine our needs ensures that He will supply them and prevents unnecessary disappointment in Him.

**Trust (Isa. 55:9; Matt. 22:37; 1 Cor. 4:5; 13:12)**

Trust is not only the foundation for contentment, and a prerequisite for godliness; it is the clearest indication of authentic love. Infants who happily accept a parent playfully tossing them into the air and securely catching them demonstrate the security they experience in the parents’ love. They know that parents who feed them, rock them to sleep, and cuddle them frequently would never do anything to willfully harm them. In a similar way, though we may be tossed around by life’s ups and downs, we trust that a God who has demonstrated His love for us in so many ways will not allow us to suffer permanent injury, for eventually “all things work together for good” (Rom. 8:28, NKJV). Since our heavenly Father was willing to give His Son, and His Son was willing to give His life, how can we doubt His love and fail to trust in Him?

**Our Influence (Luke 11:33; John 8:12; 1 Pet. 2:11, 12; 1 John 1:7)**

Jesus is the light of the world, and His followers are the light reflectors. Followers are not light sources. If the followers are not positioned to catch the light, they cannot reflect the light to others. Therefore, the follower’s first priority must always be being in position to catch the light. The second priority for the follower is to be positioned in such a way that the light from Christ can be reflected in one’s neighborhood, workplace, and social circles. While reflectors cannot originate light, there are things that can dim that reflection. Cloudy mirrors cannot possibly reflect light as fully as polished mirrors can. Covering a mirror can nearly eliminate the reflection altogether. While Christ’s followers can never cherish the thought of originating the light (blasphemy), they should always guard their ability to reflect God’s love by yielding their selfishness to the cleansing power of God’s Spirit.

**Final Words (Matt. 12:30; 25:21; Rom. 3:21; 4:6; Heb. 11:13, 14)**

Christ foretells an end-time judgment when the eternal destinies of all will be decided. Some will hear the words, “Well done, good and faithful servant.” Others will hear, “Depart from me.” Sadly, many who are told to depart will be utterly surprised. They will declare their good works and sacrificial actions as though demanding entrance into God’s kingdom. How sad are the words “I never knew you” that come from God’s throne. Outward behaviors aside, the condition of the heart is all that counts. Genuine trust in God’s mercy is all that saves.

**REACT**

`1. How can I improve my trust in God?`

`2. What can I do to polish my mirror and more fully reflect God’s love?`

_Dan Solis, College Place, Washington, USA_

