---
title:  Giving—a Gift to the Heart
date:   26/03/2018
---

**Testimony:** Job 1:1; 2:3; Ezek. 14:14

“The giving that is the fruit of self-denial is a wonderful help to the giver. It imparts an education that enables us more fully to comprehend the work of Him who went about doing good, relieving the suffering, and supplying the needs of the destitute. The Saviour lived not to please Himself. In His life there was no trace of selfishness.”1

“Only when selfishness is dead, when strife for supremacy is banished, when gratitude fills the heart, and love makes fragrant the life—it is only then that Christ is abiding in the soul, and we are recognized as laborers together with God.” 2

**“In His life there was no trace of selfishness.”**

“The offerings of the poor, given through self-denial to aid in extending the precious light of saving truth, will not only be a sweet-smelling savor to God, and wholly acceptable to Him as a consecrated gift, but the very act of giving expands the heart of the giver, and unites him more fully to the Redeemer of the world.”3

“It were well for parents to lear n from the man of Uz a lesson of steadfastness and devotion. Job did not neglect his duty to those outside of his household; he was benevolent, kind, thoughtful of the interest of others; and at the same time he labored earnestly for the salvation of his own family.”4

“But character is not transferable. No man can believe for another. No man can receive the Spirit for another. No man can impart to another the character which is the fruit of the Spirit’s working. ‘Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it [the land], as I live, saith the Lord God, they shall deliver neither son nor daughter; they shall but deliver their own souls by their righteousness.’ Ezekiel 14:20.”5

**REACT**

`1. Have you experienced blessings from giving? Has that experience shaped your view and understanding of stewardship? If so, how?`

`2. What can be taken from the lives of Noah, Daniel, and Job in terms of stewardship? What can we do today to live according to their examples?`

`3. Is prosperity necessarily evidence of God’s blessings on the steward?`

<sub>1. Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, p. 300.</sub>

<sub>2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 402.</sub>

<sub>3. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 347.</sub>

<sub>4. Ellen G. White Comments, “Job,” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 3, p. 1140.</sub>

<sub>5. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 412.</sub>

_Erika Robinson, Santa Barbara, California, USA_

