---
title:  “I Never Knew You”
date:   27/03/2018
---

**Evidence:** Matt. 7:21–23

What does it mean to be a Christian? Does it mean always attending your Sabbath School class? Paying a faithful tithe? Reading the Bible each day? Being able to defend the church’s fundamental beliefs? Being a baptized member of the church?

All of those things are good—but are they what makes you a Christian? What is the core of Christianity?

**Authentic Christianity is tested by the quality of your love.**

It is really quite self-explanatory. Christians are those who model their lives after Christ. It means being a disciple of Jesus, following in His footsteps and living life the way He did. Jesus put it this way in John 13:35: “By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another” (NIV). Being a Christian, then, is not primarily about what you know or how often you go to church. Authentic Christianity is tested by the quality of your love. The world does not care whether you go to church; they care whether you care about them and love them. In fact, if your love is not genuine, it would be better if you did not call yourself a Christian.

This is what Christ Himself says in Matthew 7:21–23: “ ‘Not everyone who says to me, “Lord, Lord,” will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, “Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and in your name perform many miracles?” Then I will tell them plainly, “I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers!” ’ ” (NIV).

Imagine that—people who identify as Christians will be identified by Christ as evildoers. Going to church and saying “Lord, Lord” in your prayers are not what God is after. That is not what makes you a Christian. What God wants is a life dedicated to Him. When we put God first, we will go to Sabbath School, pay tithe, and read the Bible; but we will do those things motivated by a heart of love. When we are motivated by a heart of love, the world will take notice. We will not have to tell them we are Christians. They will already know.

**REACT**

`1. If your friend asked you what Christianity was all about, what would you tell them?`

`2. Are there things you can do to help the world know that you are a Christian? If so, what?`

`3. Do you think there are people who identify as Christian who will be called “evildoers” by Christ? If so, why do you think that is?`

_Kevin Murray McGill, College Place, Washington, USA_

