---
title:  Owner, Steward, Talent
date:   28/03/2018
---

**How-to:** Matt. 25:14–46

The parable of the talents says much about being the best stewards for Christ. Being a steward is like anything of importance in our lives. It needs to have goals and a game plan. God has given each of us talents. Think about the talents with which you have been blessed. If you are not sure what these are, take a moment to pray about this.

First, to use these talents, we must start each day with prayer. Paul describes the importance of this in 1 Thessalonians. We need to invite Jesus into our day and ask Him to fill us with the Holy Spirit. In this prayer we ask about His desires for us as stewards for the day. To work according to His will, we must ask for the Holy Spirit to speak to our hearts. After prayer, wait for a moment in peace with eyes closed. In these moments He has the opportunity to speak to our hearts. It says in 1 Thessalonians 5:17 to “pray without ceasing.” By starting each day with prayer, we can then fall back on, and continue adding to, this never-ending prayer throughout our day.

**Think about the talents with which you have been blessed.**

The second thing we do as stewards is act. In the parable of the talents, actions gained favor. Matthew 25 says that two individuals made profit for the master who was traveling. They acted on what was given to them within their own abilities. These two individuals did not sit around and ponder the talents with which they had been blessed.

To reiterate, start each day with prayer. After prayer, believe that with His blessing, we will act according to His will. We should take these talents and be stewards of them so that we are producing more for Him. As stewards, we are taking part in responsible planning. We understand that we are created by the very same Creator.

Finally, we show what we have done with these talents. He has entrusted us with so much. I have been blessed to work in His ministry as a teacher. I know He is asking me to build young minds to be strong for Him today, not tomorrow. I know that these young hearts are not to be placed on the back burner. We need to find out what He needs from us today. We cannot put off His calling until tomorrow, next week, or next year. It is today that matters as we co-labor with Him.

**REACT**

`1. What does Paul mean when he writes, “Moreover it is required in stewards that one be found faithful” (1 Cor. 4:2, NKJV)?`

`2. What would hearing “Well done, faithful servant” mean to you?`

_David Solis, Moscow, Idaho, USA_

