---
title:  Drive-By Strategies or Community-Driven Stewardship
date:   29/03/2018
---

**Opinion:** 1 Pet. 2:12

A practice in evangelical Christian circles, dating back to the tent revivals of the twentieth century, is to swiftly move from community to community passing out tracts and running evangelistic series before moving on to the next community to repeat the process. Though this has undoubtedly led people to God, it typically consumes a disproportionate amount of resources. The practice seems fueled by the desire to spread God’s good news as quickly and as far-reachingly as possible with whatever time God grants. What this approach lacks is an understanding of the grunt work that brings about lasting change.

**Stewardship entails responsibility.**

Stewardship entails responsibility. A steward of God has the responsibility of reflecting Him to those on earth, so that when they see joy, love, humility, and respect for others, they will want to know the Source. Stewards must have an understanding of the environment in which they live so that they will know the time and the place for appropriate forms of outreach.

The idea of sweeping through a community and changing it all during a three-week period is so attractive, but what lasting effect does it leave? What would happen if, instead, we focused on the long haul that represents the reality of this life? A drive-by of the gospel would be convenient, but like a drive- by, it can lead to long-term chaos and destruction, lacking time and place.

A pamphlet might quickly find its way to a wastebasket, but a steward’s commitment to serving that neighborhood may be the picture of God for which the reluctant may have been looking. The reality is that stewardship of God’s Word, through spreading the gospel, often is a long process in which communities demand relationship before all else. Good stewards, God’s stewards, must prove that the Person they reflect is worth finding out more about.

The greatest missionaries of our time have understood this, and we would benefit from their examples. In the end, stewards must be diligent, knowing that the eyes of their world are upon them and, ultimately, understanding “time and place.”

**REACT**

`Identify a group in your community that has been difficult to reach. What new strategies might you use with this long-haul approach to spreading God’s good news?`

_Jonathan Marcos Solis, Lodi, California, USA_