---
title:  “So they may see your Matt. 5:16 good deeds . . .”
date:   30/03/2018
---

**Exploration:** Matt. 5:16

**CONCLUDE**

Just as the moon reflects the light of the sun, Christians all over the world reflect God’s love through their thoughts, words, and actions. The way we care and show love for others means more to people than knowing that we go to church and follow a set of certain regulations. Connection with God is essential. Just as you charge your phone every day, we need to receive God’s love and energy daily to serve our friends whom we want to be saved. It is time to set goals and get your game plan going to save as many people as possible. Life is a battle; let us be like Desmond Doss,* saying, “Lord, help me save one more!”

**CONSIDER**

- Thinking and praying about one of your friends who has not accepted Jesus yet. Commit yourself to spending more time with that person and showing them that they are valuable in God’s eyes.
- Filming your Sabbath School class and other youth activities and editing a short promo to post on social media and share with your nonbelieving friends.
- Composing a cup-song (using different parts of a plastic cup for percussion) about your mission as a steward and performing it.
- Searching the Internet for ideas on how to be a good steward in the area where you live. Join local organizations or create your own.
- Making a poster for your room to remind yourself of your mission on this earth.
- Organizing a picnic for your friends from church and friends who don’t believe in God yet. Mingle together and play games to get to know one other better.
- Downloading an easy-to-use Bible reading chart from http://ow.ly /IGCQ305FGFp to help you plan your daily devotional time.

**CONNECT**

Genesis 39:4–6; Proverbs 16:3; 1 Timothy 4:14–16; 1 Peter 4:10, 11.

Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, chapter 8, “Growing Up Into Christ”; The Desire of Ages, chapter 86, “Go Teach All Nations.”

Rick Warren, The Purpose Driven Life: What on Earth Am I Here For? Purpose #4: “You Were Shaped for Serving God.”

<sub>* A Seventh-day Adventist American soldier who never touched a gun, whose story was told in the movie Hacksaw Ridge (2016).</sub>

_Tatiana Kisakova, Denver, Colorado, USA_