---
title:  A World of Addictions
date:  01/02/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew
4:1–11**

**A World of Addictions**

We live in a world of addictions. Technology is engineered to foster addictive behaviors that keep users constantly clicking and scrolling. Smartphone apps are designed to keep users returning throughout the day without realizing they’ve developed a craving for the dopamine hit they get when they interact with the app. Advertisers spend billions of dollars to manipulate viewers into feeling that they must buy certain products to be happy. Many students struggle with school because they spend nights playing video games or binge watching their favorite shows instead of getting proper sleep. A lack of sleep can create a dependency on caffeine, which can be considered a gateway drug that can lead to other forms of stimulants. Additionally, the ingredients of processed foods are studied in laboratories to identify the perfect bliss point that maximizes cravings. Companies do whatever they can to monetize addictive behaviors and exploit human weaknesses.

Smartphones have made it much easier for us to develop secret lives on the internet. Small screens make it easy to watch videos privately without anyone else knowing. This new level of accessibility means many children develop “submarine” lives that are completely unknown to their parents. But it’s not only the children; parents hide their internet activity, even from their children and spouses, as well. As a result, an estimated 35 percent of internet downloads are porn related.

Temptation is real and comes in many forms. What tempts me may be different from what tempts you. This week we will look at Jesus’ life and will discover from His example how to strengthen our minds to resist temptation.

We also encourage you to become familiar with resources to help yourself and others with addiction recovery. Important websites to remember include Youth Alive (youthaliveportal.org/learning/en/addiction-prevention), Gateway to Wholeness (gatewaytowholeness.com), and Adventist Recovery Ministries (adventistrecoveryglobal.org).

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 4:1–11 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 4. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `