---
title:  Fierce Temptations
date:  02/02/2025
---

#### inGest

We especially need the mind of Christ when facing temptation. Christ’s victory in the wilderness shows us how to resist the enemy’s advances. Our Savior overcame temptation with the same weapons available to us when we are tempted.

Christ was “led… by the Spirit” (Matt. 4:1) to the wilderness. Jesus did not go into the wilderness looking for temptation. He followed the Holy Spirit into the wilderness seeking a time of prayer and spiritual preparation for His ministry. Overcoming temptation begins with being where God has called us to be and not carelessly inviting temptation or putting it in front of us.

Only after forty days without food did the tempter come to Jesus; he waited until Jesus was in His weakest, most vulnerable condition. Most of us know the feeling of hunger after missing a meal or two. Sometimes hunger brings out the worst in us. When our bodies feel faint, it’s easy to become grumpy. However, this is nothing like the extreme hunger Jesus must’ve experienced after forty days without food. If Jesus had lost control of His attitude or yielded to His cravings, Satan would have gained the victory. For Jesus to make bread out of the desert stones would have legitimized Satan’s challenge to His authority. It would have been playing Satan’s game according to Satan’s rules. Jesus could not even acknowledge the false premise that Satan tried to setup.

In the Garden of Eden, appetite was the testing point for Adam and Eve. Christ, the second Adam, overcome Satan on the very points where our first parents failed. Today, indulgence of appetite is still one of the tempter’s most successful strategies for leading people into sin. The devil knows the strength of human passions and cravings and takes full advantage of that vulnerability. Nothing ruins a family’s happiness faster than addictions that take control of people’s lives. As One who knows the depths of our weaknesses, Christ’s heart overflows with sympathy for those who’ve been trapped in destructive cycles (Heb. 4:15). In our own human strength, it is impossible to overcome the cravings that control us. Jesus conquered so He could set us free. Jesus overcame in the areas of appetite (Matt. 4:3, 4), presumption (vv. 5–7), and pride (vv. 8–10) so He could deliver us from “the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life” (1 John 2:16).

If we draw close to God, the Bible promises that the same devil who fled from Jesus when He resisted temptation will also flee from us when we resist (James 4:7, 8). Resisting temptation means fighting back with everything we have. Christians should utilize a wholistic approach that goes beyond only spiritual help. For recovering addicts, this often means we need a healthy community, accountability partners, and professional medical treatment or therapy.

#### Journal

`Go through Matthew 4:1–11, find a verse that strikes you, and memorize it. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`In what ways do you see the devil tempting people today with appetite, presumption, and pride?`

`What are the most difficult temptations you face in life?`