---
title:  Overcoming with the Word
date:  03/02/2025
---

#### inTerpret

During the temptations, Satan came to Jesus trying to make Him doubt His own identity. These were not simple, straight-forward temptations; they were sophisticated attacks trying to erode His mental state. Satan kept repeating, “If you are the Son of God…” (Matt 4:3, 6). The principles that Jesus demonstrated in resisting these temptations apply not only to spiritual attacks but to emotional and psychological struggles as well. Today, our own battles with temptation often grow out of deep wounds from trauma and low self-esteem. Resisting temptation is not always an easy answer when the cause of addiction is deeply rooted in emotional pain and need for healing. A person who has these kinds of ongoing struggles can really benefit from the support of a qualified person or group who will help them rebuild themselves emotionally and spiritually.

When facing each temptation, Jesus did not look to Himself for answers. He continually directed His mind to the Word of God and withstood the temptation by saying, “It is written” (vv. 4, 7, 10). In return, the devil also quoted Scripture (v. 6). Satan has studied God’s Word so that he can twist its meaning to his own advantage by removing it from its context and misapplying it. Because Satan rejects the claims of God’s Word, he may quote some Scripture, but he does it in a way that undermines or contradicts with other parts of Scripture. It takes a dedicated Bible student to detect deceptions that are masked with misquoted scriptures. We can be safe only by studying all of Scripture and by living “by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God” (v. 4, emphasis added).

The Savior could use God’s Word at any time because He knew what it said. To have this deep knowledge of God’s Word, we must spend quality time in it. When we become thoroughly immersed in Scripture, we can respond to every challenge by first seeking and recognizing the counsel it gives. The overcomer must hide God’s Word in their heart (Ps. 119:11) so that it’s readily available to use to resist negative thoughts or other suggestions from the enemy. When surrounded by darkness, God’s Word can be a “lamp to my feet and a light to my path” (v. 105).

The Bible gives us the mind of God expressed in written form. We receive God’s mind as we repeat God’s words. This is more than the devil can withstand. The tempter falls back whenever the Word of God is spoken in faith. The Bible is the deadliest weapon any Christian can bring against the enemy. It is sharper than any double-edged sword (Eph. 6:17; Heb. 4:12). When we hold tightly to God’s promises, the devil can make no progress against us.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying the primary passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can you use God’s Word more effectively in areas where you currently struggle?`

` `