---
title:  The Helmet of Salvation
date:  05/02/2025
---

#### inVite

Christ is our example in all things. He showed us how to engage in this fight of faith by continually committing Himself to His heavenly Father (1 Peter 2:21–25). As a human, Jesus depended continually on His connection with heaven. How much more should we realize our inability to fight in our own strength? The forces we battle are far greater than any level of resistance we think we might have in ourselves. We have no chance of withstanding the enemy unless we fight in God’s strength (Eph. 6:10–13), part of which involves putting on the entire armor of God (vv. 14–18). Nothing must be missing, for an incomplete set of armor results in certain defeat.

In New Testament times, when a soldier suited up for battle, the helmet was one of the last pieces of armor to go on. A helmet was vital for survival as it protected the brain, the command center for the rest of the body. If the head was badly damaged, the rest of the armor would be useless. The Christian’s helmet is the assurance of salvation, and it is an impenetrable defense against the enemy’s attacks on our minds. Those who rest confidently in the salvation God has provided are not so easily troubled by the pressures of this world. Trusting in God’s gift of eternal life puts the worries of this world into proper perspective. Choosing to trust can be difficult, but God has shown again and again that He is worthy of our trust. He is good, and He neither takes our trust lightly nor takes advantage of it.

We must remember that our minds are battlefields. The outcomes of our mental battles determine the course of our lives. The most important decision we make in these battles is whether we accept Jesus’ gift of salvation and follow Him. By taking Jesus as our Savior and Lord, we put on the helmet of salvation. By continuing to embrace Jesus every day, we keep the helmet of salvation on as a protection against the enemy.

There is no feeling more debilitating than being loaded down with guilt and shame and being unsure of our standing with God. Facing temptation when we’re carrying a heavy load of guilt is like going into battle believing we will lose the war. Guilt is helpful to the extent that it leads us to Jesus. When we come to Jesus and allow Him to take away our sin and guilt, we find new strength that we’ve never had before and could never have on our own. Accepting God’s forgiveness sets us free from guilt and shame and strengthens us to win our battles against temptation. We can begin winning our next battle with temptation now, by donning the helmet of salvation and keeping it on every day.

Journal:

`Meditate on Matthew 4:1–11 again and consider what we learn about Jesus from this story.`

`Do you have the assurance of God’s salvation today? Why or why not?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

` `