---
title:  How Much Pain Can We Suffer?
date:  23/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 22; John 8:56; Hosea 2:1–12; Hosea 2:14–23; Job 1:6–Job 2:10; 2 Corinthians 1:8, 9; 2 Corinthians 11:23–29; 2 Corinthians 1:4; Isaiah 43:1–7; Hebrews 4:15.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The Lordord was pleased with this humble [empty of all pride] servant who suffered such [so much] pain. Even after giving himself as an offering for sin, he will see his descendants [future children] and enjoy a long life. He will succeed in doing what the Lordord wanted” (Isaiah 53:10, ERV).

C. S. LEWIS’S WIFE LAY DYING. During this time, Lewis wrote, “I don’t think I am in much danger of not believing in God. The real danger to me comes from my wanting to believe awful things about Him. I don’t think I will end up saying, ‘So there’s no God after all.’ But I’m afraid I will say, ‘Is this who God really is?’ ”—A Grief Observed (New York: HarperCollins Publishers, Inc., 1961), pages 6, 7, adapted.

When things in life become painful, some people reject God fully. Other people may feel the same way about God that C. S. Lewis felt. They may start to question their ideas and beliefs about God. They also may start to believe bad things about Him. The question is, How much pain can God’s people suffer? That is, how much pain and hard times, tests and troubles must we suffer to look the same as Jesus (Romans 8:29)?