---
title:  Abraham’s Test 
date:  24/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read about Abraham’s difficult test in Genesis 22. God asks Abraham to give Him Isaac, his own son, as a burnt offering. Try to make a picture in your head of Abraham at this time. How do you think he felt? Why does a holy God ask His loyal follower to kill his own son? Also, what about God’s promise? God promised to make Abraham the father of many people. How can this promise happen without a son?

`Why does God ask Abraham to give Him Isaac as a burnt offering? God knows everything that will happen, right? So, what important lesson does God want Abraham to learn from this test?`

God gave Abraham a very difficult test. “God waited to give Abraham this final test when he was very old. At this time in his life, Abraham wanted to rest from hard tests and suffering.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 147, adapted. Was this the test of a crazy god? Of course not! “The test caused Abraham much pain and suffering. God permitted Abraham to suffer this awful pain. God wanted to help Abraham to understand from his own experience how much God must give up so that He can save us.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 154, adapted.

This experience, as awful as it was, was only a test. God never meant for Abraham to kill his son. This test shows us something very important about the way that God works. God may ask us to do something that He never means for us to finish. God may ask us to go somewhere He never really wants us to go. What’s important to God is not the end—but what we learn along the way.

Maybe Jesus thought about Abraham’s experience when He said, “ ‘Your father Abraham was filled with joy at the thought of seeing my day. He saw it and was glad’ ” (John 8:56, NIrV). Abraham saw the coming of Jesus because he obeyed God. Abraham didn’t think that the command to kill Isaac came from Satan. Abraham knew that God asked him to give Him his son. That’s why Abraham won and learned from this experience. He knew when God talked to him.

`How do you know when God talks to you? What are the ways that God communicates to you His plan for your life?`