---
title:  Israel Goes Back To Doing Evil 
date:  25/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hosea’s story has some powerful lessons to teach us. Hosea’s story is surprising, too. His wife, Gomer, runs away. She has children with other men. After Gomer cheats on Hosea, God tells Hosea to take his wife back and to love her fully. This story is a picture story about God and Israel. The Israelites “cheated” on God with other gods. But God never stopped loving Israel. God wanted to show His love to His people again. Just look at how God does this!

**Read Hosea 2:1–12. What does God say He will do to help Israel find Him?**

`Hosea 2:2, 3`

`Hosea 2:5–7`

`Hosea 2:8, 9`

`Hosea 2:10`

Hosea’s story shows us two important problems that we may have when God brings us back to Him. First, we may not see that God works to save us. When Israel had difficult and painful experiences, they had trouble seeing that God worked to save them. The same is true for us when life is filled with many troubles. When we can’t see where we’re going (Hosea 2:6), we may ask, “Where is God?” When we have no food, clothes, or water, or when we feel embarrassed, we may wonder, “Where is God?” Whatever we feel, God always works to save us, because He loves us very much.

Second, we may not understand God Himself when He works to save us. We may see He’s at work, but we may not like what He’s doing. When we feel hurt and embarrassed, we may blame God for being mean and nasty. Or for not caring for us. Or for not helping us. But God always works to make us new, because He loves us.

`Read Hosea 2:14–23. What do these verses teach us about God? Ask the Holy Spirit to show you if you have been running away from God in any part of your life. If you have been, why wait for trouble to come before you give your heart back to God? What’s stopping you from giving everything to the Lord now?`