---
title:  Job’s Troubles 
date:  26/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What caused Job’s suffering? Read Job 1:6–Job 2:10 for the answer.`

We see something surprising in Job’s story. The angels come to see God. Satan comes with them. God asks Satan where he’s been. Satan says, “ ‘I have been roaming [wandering] around the earth, going from place to place’ ” (Job 1:7, ERV). Then God asks Satan this question: “ ‘Have you noticed [seen and thought about] my servant Job? There is no one on earth like [the same as] him’ ” (Job 1:8, ERV). The question itself is not surprising. What’s so surprising is that God asks it. Do you see that Satan is not the one who points to Job as an example to watch? God does. God brings Job to Satan’s attention. Down on the earth, Job has no idea how much he will soon suffer. Yes, Satan, not God, causes Job’s suffering. But God gives Satan permission to destroy Job’s stuff, children, and his health. If God gives His permission for Job to suffer, does it matter who causes the suffering? How can God be holy and good when He allows Satan to cause Job so much pain? Is Job’s suffering a special example, or does God work this way with us today?

`In Job 1:20, 21, how does Job behave during his troubles?`

We can behave in one of two ways when we suffer or are given difficult tests. We can become angry. We can believe bad things about God. Or we can hold on with faith to God more tightly. What does Job do? He stays loyal to God and worships Him.

In Job 1:20, 21, Job does three things that may help us when we suffer. (1) Job accepts he can’t change anything. He understands that no one owes him anything: “ ‘When I was born into this world [on this earth], I was naked [with no clothes] and had nothing. When I die and leave this world, I will be naked and have nothing’ ” (Job 1:21, ERV). (2) Job believes that God continues to be in full control: “ ‘The Lord ord gives, and the Lord takes away’ ” (Job 1:21, ERV). (3) Job worships God and believes He is worthy of praise: “ ‘Praise the name of the Lord!’ ” (Job 1:21, ERV).

`Are you suffering? Do the three things that Job did. How do you think these things will help you?`