---
title:  Hope That Saves Us 
date:  27/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Yes, we really felt our time had come to die. This [experience] was [happened] to make us trust, not in ourselves, but in God. He brings people back to life. He saved us from the death that was so near, and he still saves us. We believe that God will keep on saving us” (2 Corinthians 1:8, 9, WE).

God chose Paul to preach to the non-Jews. Paul suffered many things in his work for God. For sure, Paul suffered more than most people. But Paul did not give up hope. Paul praised God more. Read about Paul’s list of hard times in 2 Corinthians 11:23–29. Then read 2 Corinthians 1:3–11.

`In 2 Corinthians 1:4, Paul says that God comforts us “so that when others have trouble, we can comfort them with the same comfort God gives us” (ERV). Do you think that God uses suffering to show us that He wants us to serve Him? If yes, give reasons why you think this is so.`

God wants us to help people who are hurt. So, God may first allow us to suffer the same hurts other people suffer. Then we can encourage them from our own experience. We can tell them about the love and comfort that God gave us. Jesus did this all the time (read Hebrews 4:15).

Paul does not tell us about his hard times to make us feel sorry for him. Paul wants us to know that no matter how bad things get, God can help us. We may want to give up and die. We may be afraid of getting killed. But we must not fear. God is teaching us to depend on Him. We can trust Him, for God brings the dead back to life (2 Corinthians 1:9).

Paul’s faith is supported by three things. Paul talks about these three things in 2 Corinthians 1:10, 11: (1) God saved us from dangers in the past. He will continue to save us (2 Corinthians 1:10). (2) Paul puts his hope in God. (3) Paul is thankful for the prayers of his friends (2 Corinthians 1:11).

`What can you learn from Paul that can help you stay strong during hard times and not pity yourself?`