---
title:  How Much Pain Can We Take? 
date:  28/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

So far, we’ve looked at many examples of the tests that God gives us to help us look the same as Jesus. Some people may look at these examples and believe that God is mean and hard on us. They may say, “Sure, we know that God wants something good for us. But these examples don’t show us much care and love. God looks the same as a bully. He does things that cause us terrible hard times. That’s how things are. We can do nothing about it.”

We live on a sin-filled earth. So, we understand only a little bit about why things happen. In heaven we’ll understand so much more (1 Corinthians 4:5; 1 Corinthians 13:12). But for now, we must accept that God cares for us, even when things don’t always go right or feel so good. Isaiah talks about this problem.

Read Isaiah 43:1–7. God says to His people, “ ‘Don’t be afraid. I saved you. I named you. You are mine. When you have troubles, I am with you. When you cross rivers, you will not be hurt. When you walk through fire, you will not be burned; the flames will not hurt you. That’s because I, the Lordord, am your God’ ” (Isaiah 43:1–3, ERV). The rivers and the fire are word pictures. They show us terrible danger. Maybe they also show us the time when God’s people crossed the Red Sea and the Jordan. These experiences were scary times for God’s people. But they led to a new life. You may expect that God will say that He will protect His people from these dangers and lead them in an easier way. But just as the Shepherd in Psalm 23 is with His sheep, God is with His people. So, we do not need to be afraid when difficult times come.

`Look back at Isaiah 43:1–7. Write down the different ways that God comforts His people during hard times. What picture about God does your answer make in your mind? Which promises in these verses do you need the most in your life?`

Isaiah 43:1–7 teaches us three things about God’s tests for us. (1) God’s tests are not meant to destroy us. His tests help destroy our sins. (2) God’s tests are not meant to make us feel bad. They are meant to make us clean and holy. (3) God’s care for us never stops during our suffering. He loves us with a tender heart. God will never leave us alone, no matter what happens to us.