---
title:  Further Thought
date:  29/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Test of Faith,” pages 145–155, in Patriarchs and Prophets; and “Praise Ye the Lord,” pages 315–319, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 5.

“God always gives His people tests. Suffering is a test. Suffering causes the sin to be separated from us. Then we become the same as gold. Jesus watches us take the test. He knows what we need so that we may become the same as precious metal. Then we can show His love. In this way, God uses painful tests to discipline His servants. God sees that some of His servants have skills that they can use to help His work on earth. So, God gives these persons special tests. He puts them in jobs and in places that will show them what is in their hearts. . . . God shows them their own weaknesses. He teaches them to trust Him. These tests are part of God’s plan. In this way, God’s people are taught, trained, and disciplined. God gets His people ready to do the work He gave them the skills to do.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 129, 130, adapted.

“Has God permitted you to suffer? Then accept the suffering and the test. Remember that God has allowed you to have this experience. So, trust Him in the hard times as well as the good times. Believe that He will give you everything that is for your good. . . . When we suffer, we must praise God with thankful hearts. How can we refuse to give God praise when we remember the love He showed us on the cross?”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 316, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, ask someone to talk about a test of faith that he or she had that was very hard. Did this class member fail or succeed? What can you learn from this person’s experience?`

`Review the last 24 hours of Jesus’ life before He died on the cross. What were Jesus’ tests during that time? What pain did He suffer? How did Jesus act? What important rules can we learn from His example? How can these rules help us when we suffer?`

`How can our suffering bring a blessing to other people who suffer?`

`Why is it important to trust God in the bad times and not just during the good ones?`