---
title:  "Jonah: God’s Unwilling Messenger"
date:   22/06/2025
---

Jonah’s story is very short (Jonah 1–4). But it teaches us many important Bible truths. Many of us see ourselves in this unwilling prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God. Jonah’s story also helps us understand the end times better.

`Which parts of Jonah’s story does Jesus discuss when He talks to the Jewish leaders? What lessons do Jesus’ words teach us about God’s work as Judge? Read Matthew 12:38–42 for the answer.`

Jesus announced that He was more important than Jonah. Jesus knew that His coming to this earth meant the Cross. But He came anyway. He “came to find lost people and save them” (Luke 19:10, ERV). Jonah spent three days in the big fish because of his own sins. Jesus spent three days in the grave because of ours. That’s what it took to save us.

Today, we know Jonah as the unwilling prophet. Jonah didn’t want to go to Nineveh. From a human view, we can easily understand why Jonah was so unwilling. The Assyrians were mean and nasty to their enemies. Their paintings show what they did to their prisoners of war. The Assyrians killed them in the most terrible ways possible. Who would want to go preach to these people in their capital city and tell them to confess their sins?!

Jonah’s story contains a lesson for God’s end-time church. When Jonah is asked who he is, he answers, “ ‘I am a Hebrew. I worship the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the land and the sea” (Jonah 1:9, ERV). This answer is much the same as the 1st Angel’s Message (Revelation 14:7). Jonah’s words show us that the Lord made everything. This Bible truth is the reason we should worship Him. As we already saw, worship is an important test in the end times.

God commands us to preach a message to the people in spiritual Babylon. When we say, “ ‘Come out of it, my people’ ” (Revelation 18:4, WE), this message means the same thing as telling people that they must confess their sins. Our message is not very popular. Many people get angry when they hear this message, even when we preach it in the most loving way possible.

`How much of Jonah do you find in yourself? How can you let go of your wrong thoughts and feelings?`