---
title:  Nineveh Confesses
date:   23/06/2025
---

Jonah’s message to the people in Nineveh was plain: God was ready to punish them for their sins. “Jonah entered the city. When he had walked for one day, he preached to the people. He said, ‘After 40 days, Nineveh will be destroyed!’ ”

Nineveh wasn’t destroyed. So, what happened? Wasn’t Jonah God’s special messenger? Why didn’t things happen the way he said they would happen? (Jonah 3:4, ICB).

`Read Jonah 3:5–10. Why didn’t this message happen?`

The whole city confesses their sins. So, God doesn’t destroy Nineveh, at least not at that time. “God didn’t punish Nineveh. People who didn’t know about God honored Him and His law. Many years would pass before Nineveh was destroyed. That was because the people of Nineveh refused to honor God anymore and became filled with pride.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 271, adapted.

Can we expect something the same as this experience to happen in the end times when we preach God’s final warning to the people on this earth? Yes and no. Yes, there will be everywhere people who will hear the warning, “ ‘Come out of that city, my people, so that you will not share in her sins. Then you will not suffer any of the terrible punishment she will get’ ” (Revelation 18:4, ERV). Everywhere on earth, people will take their stand for God and against the beast. This group will “keep the commandments of God and hold fast [tight] to the faith of Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, NRSVUE). These people who live in the end times will be much the same as the people in Nineveh. God will not punish them with the lost.

At the same time, we must understand that God said Nineveh would be destroyed only if the people didn’t stop sinning (read Jeremiah 18:7–10). Sometimes what we do or don’t do will not change what will happen. God will do what He says anyway: the first and second comings, the mark of the beast, the seven final troubles, the end-time attacks. Nothing we do will stop these things from happening. What we choose to do will decide which side we will be on during the final happenings of the end times.

`What choices are you making now that can help you make the best choice during the final test that is coming?`