---
title:  Belshazzar’s Feast
date:   24/06/2025
---

In 612 B.C., an army from Babylon fought against Nineveh, and Nineveh lost. Nebuchadnezzar’s father led the army that included both Medes and Babylonians. Then the city of Babylon grew strong. King Nebuchadnezzar made the city of Babylon mighty. The city grew very rich and powerful. Babylon was queen of the whole earth. Countries who wished to be a success announced their loyalty to her.

As far as we know, Nebuchadnezzar died believing in God. Earlier, he announced that Daniel’s God was the real King of all the countries on the earth (Daniel 4:34–37). The next story in the book of Daniel is about the king who controlled Babylon after Nebuchadnezzar: Belshazzar.

`Read Daniel 5:1–31. What important spiritual messages can we learn from these verses? What caused Belshazzar to lose his kingdom?`

Maybe the worst part of this story is found in Daniel 5:22. First, Daniel tells the king the history of Nebuchadnezzar’s fall and rise to power again. Then Daniel says to Belshazzar, “ ‘But, Belshazzar, you already knew these things. You are a descendant [grandson] of Nebuchadnezzar. But still [anyway] you have not been sorry for what you have done’ ” (Daniel 5:22, ICB). What did Daniel mean? Belshazzar knew the truth. Maybe he didn’t see for himself with his own eyes what happened to Nebuchadnezzar. But he knew the story and chose not to learn from it. Belshazzar chose to do the same things that caused Nebuchadnezzar so much trouble.

Nebuchadnezzar publicly rejected God’s special message about the future when he built the gold statue on the plain of Dura. In the same way, Belshazzar publicly went against God’s special messages. Belshazzar used the bowls and cups from the Jewish temple to honor his gods. Belshazzar wanted to show that the Babylonians were in control of the Jews and their God who said their kingdom would be destroyed.

Belshazzar’s actions showed his refusal to obey God. Belshazzar had more than enough “proof” to know better. He had enough knowledge to know the truth. The problem wasn’t with Belshazzar’s head or mind. The problem was with his heart. In the end times, everyone will hear the truth. Then they must decide to accept or reject it. Their choice, as Belshazzar’s did, will depend on their hearts.