---
title:  When the Euphrates River Dries Up
date:   25/06/2025
---

One of the things that made Babylon a strong city was the Euphrates River. The river flowed under Babylon’s walls, giving the city the water it needed. The Euphrates River also was the city’s biggest weakness. Nitocris, an ancient Babylonian queen, wanted to build a road along the river. So, she drained the river into a swamp and dried up the river. Then the work crews could enter the dry river and easily do their work.

Cyrus thought he could do the same thing that Queen Nitocris did. So, Cyrus dried up the Euphrates River to march his troops under the city’s wall. When Cyrus and his army were inside the city’s walls, he saw that no one was guarding the walls. So, the city fell in a single night. The ancient Greek writer Herodotus tells us that “the people who lived in the center of Babylon didn’t know that the Persians controlled the outer parts of their city. Babylon was celebrating a festival. Everyone in the city was dancing and chasing after pleasures.”—Herodotus, The Histories, translated by Tom Holland (New York: Penguin, 2015), page 94, adapted.

`Compare Daniel 5:18–31 with Revelation 16:12–19. What is the same between some of the seven final troubles in the book of Revelation and the story about Babylon’s fall?`

Jesus explained to His followers how to understand the signs of the end times: “ ‘So always be ready. You don’t know the day your Lord will come. What would a homeowner do if he knew when a thief was coming? You know he would be ready and not let the thief break in’ ” (Matthew 24:42, 43, ERV). Just as with the fall of Babylon, the sudden appearance of Jesus at His second coming will happen as a surprise for some people. But the Second Coming doesn’t need to be a surprise for anyone. God gave us enough proof of Jesus’ coming in many special messages in the Bible.

The people on this earth will be surprised at the Second Coming. Why? Because they chose not to believe the things that God said would happen.

`God gives us many end-time warnings in the Bible. An example is Revelation 16:15. In spite of the warnings in this verse, how does it show the Good News about Jesus? What does it mean not to “go without clothes” (ERV)?`