---
title:  Cyrus, God’s Chosen “King”
date:   26/06/2025
---

When Cyrus took control of the city of Babylon, God’s people were given their freedom. The Persians allowed the Jews to go back to the Promised Land and build their temple again. Under Cyrus, the Kingdom of Persia became the largest kingdom in history. History writer Tom Holland says that Persia had “the biggest collection in history of different countries under its control.”—Tom Holland, Dominion (New York: Basic Books, 2019), Kindle edition, page 25, adapted.

People named Cyrus “The Mighty King” or “King of kings.” Cyrus shows us what will happen when Jesus comes back for His church: Jesus is the King who comes from the east (compare with Matthew 24:27). Jesus will make war on Babylon. Jesus will help His people to escape Babylon, too. Jesus will bring His people to the land of promise. (Read Revelation 19:11–16.) That’s why God names Cyrus His “chosen king” (Isaiah 45:1, ERV). Cyrus’s fight against Babylon is a symbol that shows us Jesus’ Second Coming.

`Read 2 Chronicles 36:22, 23. In what ways does the story of Cyrus help us understand the story of Nebuchadnezzar? What is the meaning of the law that is passed in 2 Chronicles 36:22, 23? How did this law lead to the first coming of Jesus, hundreds of years later?`

Today, the Old Testament ends with the book of Malachi. But in the past, the Old Testament ended with Cyrus’s announcement, in 2 Chronicles 36:22, 23. Next came the book of Matthew in the New Testament, which starts with Jesus’ being born. Cyrus is a symbol of Jesus. Cyrus gave the Jews the command to rebuild their temple. In the same way, Jesus started His work in heaven’s temple after He woke up from the dead and went to heaven. This work will end when He makes His people free in the end times. Of course, Cyrus is not a perfect symbol of Jesus. No symbol is perfect. We must be careful not to read too much meaning into every symbol. At the same time, Cyrus is a useful symbol of Jesus that helps us better understand what will happen in the end times.

`God used a Persian king in a powerful way to show His work and keep His promises to His people. How does this information help us trust that the Lord will finish His work, as He promised us?`