---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/06/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Unseen Watcher,” pages 535–538, in Prophets and Kings.

“God gives every kingdom and country a chance to use its power to do good and do the work God planned for it to do on earth. The end-time messages in the Bible show the rise and growth of the mightiest kingdoms on earth: Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece, and Rome. With each of these kingdoms, and with less powerful kingdoms, we see the same thing happen again and again in history. God gave each kingdom or country a time to govern. This time was a test. Each kingdom or country failed the test. Then the glory of this kingdom and its power came to an end. When countries and kingdoms reject God’s important rules, they will become ruined. At the same time, we see God’s plan at work in all ages of history.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 535, adapted.

In Jeremiah 18, Jeremiah watches a potter or pot maker at work. The potter shapes the clay into a bowl or pot or whatever he may be making. God uses this word picture of a potter shaping his clay to help explain an important rule: most special messages in the Bible depend on our choices. Just to make sure that we understand this important rule, the Lord talks through Jeremiah, saying: “ ‘There may come a time when I will speak about a nation [people group] or a kingdom that I will pull up by its roots or tear down and destroy it. But if the people of that nation change their hearts and lives and stop doing evil things, I will change my mind and not bring on them the disaster I planned. There may come another time when I speak about a nation that I will build up or plant. But if I see that nation doing evil things and not obeying me, I will think again about the good I had planned to do for them’ ” (Jeremiah 18:7–10, ERV).

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about Jesus’ words that God in His work as Judge will show the Ninevites more mercy than He will show to His people who reject Bible truth. (Read Matthew 12:39–42.) What lesson can the church learn from this warning?`

`What is the same problem with all the kingdoms in the Bible’s end-time messages? How are the governments of today doing the same thing?`