---
title:  What Is Truth?
date:  15/12/2024
---

In John 18:28–32, the trial of Jesus is not described in detail. The focus is on Jesus brought before Pontius Pilate.

`Read John 18:33–38. What did Pilate and Jesus talk about?`

The governor asks Jesus if He is the king of the Jews (John 18:33). It is the first reference to this title but will not be the last. Jesus asks Pilate if he is asking this on his own or did others say that He was. His question turns the tables on the governor, querying if he understands to whom he is speaking. The reader already knows that Jesus is the King. Will the governor?

Pilate responds with his own query: “ ‘Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?’ ” (John 18:35, NKJV). It was an evasion, rooted in irritation at the close application of Jesus’ question. It was the governor’s first step away from the truth, letting prejudice block his perception.

Jesus responds that His kingdom is not of this world (John 18:36). Pilate then perceptively deduces that Jesus does claim to be a king (John 18:37). This leads to Jesus’ important explanation that He was born to bear witness to the truth and that every person who is “ ‘of the truth’ ” hears His voice (John 18:37).

Pilate then asks, “ ‘What is truth?’ ” (John 18:38, NKJV). But he doesn’t wait for the answer. Instead, he goes outside to try to save Jesus from the crowd.

Truth is a theme in John’s Gospel. As the eternal Word (logos, John 1:1–5), Jesus is the Light and the Truth. All this is in contrast to darkness and error. He is full of grace and truth (John 1:14). Grace and truth came through Him (John 1:17). John the Baptist bore witness to the truth (John 5:33). Jesus affirmed that His Father is “true” (John 7:28). Jesus Himself heard the truth from His Father (John 8:40). Jesus is “the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6). The Word of God is “truth” (John 17:17). Despite his question, Pilate missed his opportunity to know the truth because of his prejudice, his earlier decisions, and the pressures upon him.

`How do you understand the idea of Jesus as the Truth?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When the Saviour was brought into the judgment hall, Pilate looked upon Him with no friendly eyes. The Roman governor had been called from his bedchamber in haste, and he determined to do his work as quickly as possible. He was prepared to deal with the prisoner with magisterial severity. Assuming his severest expression, he turned to see what kind of man he had to examine, that he had been called from his repose at so early an hour. He knew that it must be someone whom the Jewish authorities were anxious to have tried and punished with haste.\
Pilate looked at the men who had Jesus in charge, and then his gaze rested searchingly on Jesus. He had had to deal with all kinds of criminals; but never before had a man bearing marks of such goodness and nobility been brought before him. On His face he saw no sign of guilt, no expression of fear, no boldness or defiance. He saw a man of calm and dignified bearing, whose countenance bore not the marks of a criminal, but the signature of heaven.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 723, 724.

Pilate’s golden opportunity had passed. Yet Jesus did not leave him without further light. While He did not directly answer Pilate’s question, He plainly stated His own mission. He gave Pilate to understand that He was not seeking an earthly throne. . . .\
Pilate therefore said unto Him, Art Thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth heareth My voice.”\
Christ affirmed that His word was in itself a key which would unlock the mystery to those who were prepared to receive it. It had a self-commending power, and this was the secret of the spread of His kingdom of truth. He desired Pilate to understand that only by receiving and appropriating truth could his ruined nature be reconstructed.\
Pilate had a desire to know the truth. His mind was confused. He eagerly grasped the words of the Saviour, and his heart was stirred with a great longing to know what it really was, and how he could obtain it. “What is truth?” he inquired. But he did not wait for an answer. The tumult outside recalled him to the interests of the hour.—The Desire of Ages, p. 727.\
Christ’s enemies had demanded a miracle as evidence of His divinity. They had evidence far greater than any they had sought. As their cruelty degraded His torturers below humanity into the likeness of Satan, so did His meekness and patience exalt Jesus above hu­manity, and prove His kinship to God. His abasement was the pledge of His exaltation. The blood drops of agony that from His wounded temples flowed down His face and beard were the pledge of His anointing with “the oil of gladness” (Hebrews 1:9.) as our great high priest.—The Desire of Ages, p. 734.