---
title:  inQuire
date:   21/02/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it is important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Jesus’ uniqueness:**

1. In today’s world, where many claim to know the truth, how does Jesus’ claim to be the truth impact the way you navigate your life and the choices you make? _John 14:5–11_
2. How do the claims of Jesus distinguish Him from other religious leaders, like Muhammad, Buddha, and Krishna?
3. Unlike anybody else in history, how was Jesus’ identity validated by prophecies given centuries before His birth? _E.g., Isa. 53; Mic. 5:2; Ps. 22; Dan. 9:24–27._
4. How does the blend of human and divine natures make Jesus completely different from what anybody else has ever claimed? _John 1:1–18_

`Personal reflection: How does recognizing Jesus as the Word made flesh affect your daily walk with God? What aspects of Jesus’ life and teachings stand out to you as uniquely transformative compared to other religious figures?`

**Jesus’ Impact:**

1. Why is it significant that non-Christian sources also attest to the existence and impact of Jesus?
2. How does the historical evidence provided by sources like Tacitus, Josephus, and Pliny the Younger influence your confidence in the reality of Jesus’ existence?
3. What are some common misconceptions about Jesus that you can clarify using historical and biblical evidence?
4. How can you respectfully engage in conversations with friends of different faiths about the unique identity of Jesus?

`Personal reflection: How has studying Jesus, as compared to other religious teachers, helped you see Him in a new way? How has this study challenged you to grow spiritually and deepen your understanding of Jesus’ identity and mission?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Unlike anybody else in history, Jesus declares that He is the truth.
- Many biographical details of Jesus’ life were foretold centuries before His birth, making Jesus’ Jesus unlike any other.
- Even non-Christian authors of New Testament times attested to Jesus’ life and death and to the devotion of His followers.