---
title:  All Things New
date:  24/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isaiah 65:17–25; Revelation 7:9–15; Matthew 5:8; Isaiah 25:8; Revelation 22:3–5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “He who was sitting on the throne said, ‘I am making everything new!’ Then he said, ‘Write this [saying] down. You can trust these words. They are true’ ” (Revelation 21:5, NIrV).

THE BIBLE gives us this hope: “We are looking for what God has promised, which are new heavens [skies] and a new earth. Only what is right [holy] and good will be there” (2 Peter 3:13, NLV). Some people think that this promise is a make-believe story that leaders use to control people who are unhappy with the way things are in this life. If people believe that things will be better in heaven, maybe they will accept things on earth as they are. Then the people won’t fight their leaders or try to change things. Sad to say, some leaders do use this promise in that way. But their bad behavior doesn’t change Bible truth.

The Bible says that people will doubt God’s promise in the end times. People will make fun of our hope that God will make a new earth and skies (2 Peter 3:3–7). But their laughing at us is more proof that the Bible is correct: these people do laugh at us. That’s okay. The Bible already warned us about them.

During this week, we will spend time thinking about God’s promise to us of new skies and a new earth. We also will study about the temple in heaven and the end of death and tears. As we shall see, God’s love wins in the end.