---
title:  New Skies And A New Earth 
date:  25/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Greek thinkers in Bible times taught that something with a body or form was bad. Only the spirit was good. So, the Greeks had trouble accepting ideas about a real heaven with real people. If heaven was real, the Greeks thought that nothing with a body can live there. The Bible disagrees with the Greek thinkers. Heaven will be a place where real people with real bodies will live. Sin won’t limit people’s lives. So, no one will get sick or ever die.

`Read Isaiah 65:17–25; Isaiah 66:22, 23; 2 Peter 3:13; and Revelation 21:1–5. What do these verses promise us?`

The book of Isaiah shows us an interesting picture of the past. This is not a picture of what really happened. This is a picture of what God wanted for His people. Sad to say, things didn’t happen this way. Israel didn’t keep their agreement with God (Isaiah 65:17–25; Isaiah 66:22, 23; compare with Deuteronomy 28).

“God gives the saved a special reward. This reward will belong to them forever. The Bible names this reward ‘a country.’ [Hebrews 11:14, ERV; read Hebrews 11:14–16]. There, heaven’s Shepherd leads His flock to fountains. Living water flows from these fountains. The tree of life grows its fruit each month. The leaves on the tree are for helping and healing God’s people. In this country, streams flow. The water is the same as clean glass that you can see through. Next to the streams, trees sway or move back and forth. The trees shade the streets and trails that God made for His people to walk on. The plains in this country have beautiful hills. The mountains of God are tall. Below, the plains are filled with peace. Beside these living streams, God’s people shall find a home. God’s people are no longer strangers and wanderers.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 675, adapted.

`Sad to say, many famous writers don’t believe in God. So, they have no hope of everlasting life. Without a belief in God, they can’t understand why humans are here on earth. They think there is no future life with God after humans die. They are wrong. At the same time, they are correct about one thing. Life without any future hope is the same as a life without a plan. How can we use this point to introduce God and Jesus? Bring your answer to class on Sabbath.`