---
title:  In The Temple Of God 
date:  26/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some people think that God’s temple is the same as heaven itself. But the book of Revelation shows us a temple with God’s throne (Revelation 4:2–6; Revelation 7:9–15; Revelation 15:5–8). The saved ones from all the family groups and countries on the earth will come and worship God there forever (Revelation 7:9–17).

Compare Revelation 7:9–15 with Revelation 21:3, 22. Revelation 7:9–15 talks about the big group of people in front of God’s throne. They “serve him day and night in his temple” (Revelation 7:15, NIrV). John later wrote that he “did not see a temple” in the New Jerusalem (Revelation 21:22, ERV). What explanation can you give to show that these verses really agree with each other?

The temple in heaven always has been the place where the angels and everyone else in heaven worship God. But then sin happened. Things changed. After sin, the temple also became the place where God offered His mercy to people to save them. “When God finally solves the sin problem, the temple in heaven will again be used for worship. In Revelation 21:22, John reports that he did not see a temple in the city. The Lord God All-Powerful and the Lamb are its temple. Does that mean that there won’t be a house of worship [outside the city on the new earth] where people can come and meet with God? Of course, there will be! [See Ezekiel 48.]”—Richard M. Davidson, “The Sanctuary: ‘To Behold the Beauty of the Lord,’ ” in Arthur Stele, editor, The Word: Searching, Living, Teaching, volume 1 (Silver Spring, MD: Biblical Research Institute, 2015), page 31, adapted.

The book of Revelation gives special attention to the One who is being worshiped and to the people who worship Him. The people worship God and the Lamb (Revelation 5:13; Revelation 7:10). As always, Jesus is the reason for the worship. That’s how things should be.

The ones who worship the Lamb “ ‘are the ones who came out of the time of much trouble. They have washed their clothes and have made them white in the blood of the Lamb’ ” (Revelation 7:14, NLV). Their lives show that God’s mercy saved them and that His love changed their lives. That’s why they sing praises to God with grateful hearts.