---
title:  Living With God 
date:  27/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible says that God “lives in light so bright that people cannot go near it” (1 Timothy 6:16, ERV). Also, “no one has ever seen God” (John 1:18, ERV; read also 1 John 4:12). Do these verses mean that the saved ones in heaven will never see God the Father? Of course not! After humans sinned, they no longer saw God face-to-face. Several verses in the Bible show us that God’s people will see God in heaven.

`Read Matthew 5:8; 1 John 3:2, 3; and Revelation 22:3, 4. What do these verses tell us about the wonderful blessing that we will have when we can see God?`

The same Bible writer who wrote “no one has ever seen God” (John 1:18, ERV) also announces that “we will see him just as he is” (1 John 3:2, ERV; read also 1 John 3:3). We will “see his face” (Revelation 22:4; read also Revelation 22:3). Some Bible thinkers argue about who John is talking about: God the Father or Jesus the Son? But Jesus helps us understand that we will see the face of the Father Himself: “ ‘God makes happy those [people] who have clean hearts. They will see God’ ” (Matthew 5:8, WE). God’s people will worship Him in His temple in heaven! This blessing is a wonderful gift to God’s people. The most wonderful blessing of all is that God’s people will see His face.

“God’s people will be blessed because they will communicate with the Father and the Son face-to-face. ‘Now we see as if we are looking into a dark mirror.’ 1 Corinthians 13:12, [ICB]. Now we see only a small part of God and His love in nature and in His care for us. But in heaven we shall see God face-to-face. There won’t be anything between us and God to hide Him from us. We will stand in front of God. We will look at His face, which shines as bright as light.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 676, 677, adapted.

Do you see in some of the verses today the connection between our clean hearts and seeing God? That’s because we must have clean hearts to see God. “Christ [Jesus] is pure [clean; holy]. All [people] who hope to be like [the same as] him make themselves pure” (1 John 3:3, NIrV). What important Bible truth do these verses show us? They show us that God must change us now to get us ready for heaven.