---
title:  No More Death And Tears 
date:  28/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw, the teaching is false that the spirit doesn’t die. The idea that the spirit suffers forever in everlasting fire in hell also goes against Bible truth. On the new earth, “ ‘no one will die. No one will ever cry or be sad for any reason’ ” (Revelation 21:4, WE). But what if someone believes that hell is a place where spirits burn forever? If that’s true, then the “second death” won’t destroy sin and sinners. Worse, the “second death” will be the same as a prison for evil people who will burn forever. They will never stop crying or being sad. Heaven won’t be made new or perfect again. But praise the Lord that the Bible teaches us something different!

`Read Isaiah 25:8; Revelation 7:17; and Revelation 21:4. What comfort and hope can these verses bring us in our troubles and suffering in this life?`

Life can be hard. Things may not always be fair. Some people we love can be killed. Other people can cause us to fall in love with them. Then they walk away from us as if they never knew us. These experiences are terrible. When our hearts are broken, we may not want to live anymore. But God always is ready to wipe away our tears. We may cry many more tears until Jesus comes. But we have the promise that pain, tears, and death will be destroyed (Revelation 21:1–5).

We can trust God in His final work as Judge. God will be fair. He will judge every person with love. All our loved ones who died in Jesus will wake up from the dead. We will live together with God forever. The lost ones who chose not to accept the gift of everlasting life will stop living. God will not force them to live in heaven or in an ever-burning hell. The evil ones would hate heaven anyway. We are comforted because we know that God is fair to everyone in His final decision. When God destroys death forever, we will shout with joy: “ ‘Death, you have lost the battle [fight]. Death, your power to hurt us is gone’ ” (1 Corinthians 15:54, WE; read also 1 Corinthians 15:55).

The Lord promised that in the new earth and skies, “ ‘people will not remember the past. They will not think about those things’ ” (Isaiah 65:17, ICB). This verse doesn’t mean we will forget the past. Isaiah is telling us that the past won’t get in the way of our joy.