---
title:  God Writes His Name In Our Minds 
date:  29/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Revelation 22:3–5 says that God will write His name in the minds of His people. This promise shows that God will put His law and love into His people’s hearts and give them new life. How can we know for sure that we will be part of this group?`

After Lucifer fought against God, and then Adam and Eve sinned, God could have destroyed our first parents. But God showed the human family that His love for them never ends. God made a plan of mercy to save every person who accepts the saving gift that He offers. God made this plan before He made the earth (Ephesians 1:3–5; 2 Timothy 1:9; Titus 1:2; Revelation 13:8). God first made this plan known to Adam and Eve in Eden, right after they sinned. Later, God told Moses to build Him a Holy Tent where His people can worship Him. This whole plan showed God’s saving plan in the animal offerings and other gifts. Jesus’ life, death, and waking up from the dead showed this plan, too (read Romans 5). Jesus shows us God’s plan to save us. Jesus shows us better than anyone or anything else can.

An important part of God’s saving plan is the promise of everlasting life. God gives us this gift because of everything Jesus did for us at the cross. Everyone who accepts Jesus’ life by faith will have the gift of everlasting life. Before the cross, God saved His people by their faith in His mercy. After the cross, God saves us by His mercy and our faith in it, too. God never saves us by our good behavior. At the same time, we must understand that our behavior is very important, because it shows that we are saved.

`Paul wrote about Abraham. Abraham lived long before Jesus came to this earth. Abraham is an example that God saves us by His mercy: “If Abraham was made right [accepted] by the things he did, he had a reason to boast [brag] about himself. But God knew different. That’s why the Scriptures [Old and New Testaments] say, ‘Abraham believed God, and because of this he was accepted as one who is right [innocent] with [in the eyes of] God’ ” (Romans 4:2, 3, ERV). How do these verses help explain what being saved by God’s mercy is all about?`