---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Controversy Ended,” pages 674–678, in The Great Controversy; “The Earth Made New,” pages 133–145; “Heaven Is a School,” pages 146–158; “It Will Not Be Long,” pages

159–166; “Heaven Can Begin Now,” pages 167–176; “The Music of Heaven,” pages 177–184; “A Call for Us to Be There,” pages 185–192, in Heaven.

“God’s saved people in heaven will study about the cross forever. They will sing about it, too. In their shining King, God’s people will see the Savior who died on the cross for them. God’s people will never forget that His power made the planets. No one can number the planets Jesus made. There are so many! God loves His Son so much. Jesus is the King of Heaven. The four-winged angels and the six-winged angels love to worship Him. This same God, Jesus, empties Himself of all pride to save sinners. This same God accepted our guilt and shame. This same God suffered as His Father hid His face from Him while He was on the cross. Jesus suffered all these things until the pain of our lost earth broke His heart. Our suffering ended His life on the cross. Jesus Himself made all the planets. Jesus Himself decides what happens to everyone. This same God gave up His own honor and praise. He suffered a terrible death. He did these things because He loved humans so much. Jesus’ love will always fill everyone in heaven and on earth with wonder and praise.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 651, adapted.

“The worldwide war between God and Satan is done. Sin and sinners are no more. Heaven and earth are clean. Everything that God made is filled with peace. God’s life, light, and joy flow from Him to everything He made. From the smallest parts of cells to the largest planet, all things in their beauty and perfect joy announce that God is love.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 678, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Many Christians live as if this earth will continue forever (Luke 12:16–21). How can we live on this earth but not be part of the ways of life around us? How can we guard against what Jesus warned us about in Luke 12?`

`If heaven starts here, how can we use our homes and personal lives to show the important rules of heaven?`