---
title:  God Loves Freely
date:   28/12/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

Exodus 33:15–22; Hosea 14:1–4; Revelation 4:11; Psalm 33:6; Matthew 22:1–14; John 10:17, 18.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord says, ‘I will forgive them for leaving me. I will love them freely [with no limits]. I am not angry with them anymore’ ” (Hosea 14:4, ICB).

Three times Peter said that he didn’t know Jesus. Before Jesus died, He warned Peter that he would say he didn’t know Him (Matthew 26:34). After Jesus woke up from the dead, He “said to Simon Peter, ‘Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these other men love me?’ Peter answered, ‘Yes, Lord, you know that I love you.’ Then Jesus said to him, ‘Take care of my lambs.’ Again Jesus said to him, ‘Simon, son of John, do you love me?’ Peter answered, ‘Yes, Lord, you know that I love you.’ Then Jesus said, ‘Take care of my sheep.’ A third time Jesus said, ‘Simon, son of John, do you love me?’ Peter was sad because Jesus asked him three times, ‘Do you love me?’ He said, ‘Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you!’ Jesus said to him, ‘Take care of my sheep’ ” (John 21:15–17, ERV). Jesus asked Peter to serve Him three times. Three was the number of times that Peter said he didn’t know Jesus. So, Jesus asked Peter if he loved Him three times because Jesus wanted to show His other followers that He accepted Peter again.

The question that Jesus asked Peter is the same question that God asks each of us: “Do you love Me?”

Everything depends on our answer to that question.