---
title:  God Loves Us More Than We Can Hope For
date:   29/12/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God asks us, “Do you love Me?” He also freely loves each person. God freely loves you, me, and every other person more than we could imagine in our minds. We can read Bible history to understand that God loves us very much.

`Read Exodus 33:15–22 and think about the story that these verses talk about. What do these verses show us about God’s plan for our lives and His love for us? How does verse 19 help us answer these questions in a special way?`

Not long after God saved His people from slavery in Egypt, the Israelites worshiped a gold cow. When Moses came down the mountain after talking with God, Moses saw the people worshiping the gold cow. So, Moses threw down the pieces of stone that God wrote the Ten Commandments on. The stone broke in pieces. The people lost the special blessings that God gave them. But God chose to continue to be in a special relationship with Israel anyway.

Many people don’t understand what Exodus 33:19 means: “Then the Lord answered, ‘I will show my love and mercy to anyone I want to. So I will cause my perfect goodness [love and mercy] to pass by in front of you, and I will speak my name, Yahweh, so that you can hear it’ ” (Exodus 33:19, ERV). Often people think this verse means that God chooses to show mercy to some people, but not other people. Many popular preachers teach this false idea. They say that God chooses some people to be saved and some to be lost. But God doesn’t work that way.

So, then, what is God really saying in Exodus 33:19? God announces that He can give mercy and love freely to people who didn’t do anything to earn those gifts. God will give His love and mercy to Israel even after they worship the gold cow.

This story is one of many stories that shows us that God does more for us than we could hope for or expect. God’s mercy is good news for us all, right?

`In what ways has God continued to show His love to you far more than you expected or hoped for?`