---
title:  Loving Someone Who Doesn’t Love You Back
date:   30/12/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The story about Hosea shows us God’s love for sinners. Hosea was God’s special messenger. God commanded Hosea to “ ‘marry a woman who has sex with anyone she wants. Have children with her. Do this [have children] because the people of the land are like [the same as] that kind [type] of wife. They have not been faithful [loyal] to me’ ” (Hosea 1:2, NIrV). Hosea and his cheating wife were living object lessons. They showed God’s love for His people when God’s people cheated on Him with other gods. The story about Hosea and his wife shows how God gives His love to people who are not worthy of that love.

The Israelites sin against God again and again. The Bible tells us many times that God is the same as a husband who is married to a cheating wife. God loved His people with perfect love. God was loyal to His people. But Israel did not love God back. Israel served and worshiped other gods. God’s people broke their relationship with Him and hurt God very much. At times, their relationship with God looked as if it couldn’t be repaired.

`Read Hosea 14:1–4. What do these verses show us about God’s love for His people?`

After God’s people sin against Him again, God announces: “ ‘I will forgive them for leaving me. I will love them freely [with no limits]’ ” (Hosea 14:4, ICB). The word “freely” comes from the word “nedabah” in the Hebrew language. “Nedabah” means something that a person offers or gives because he wants to. Bible writers use this same word to talk about the offerings that people chose to give freely to God in worship.

In the book of Hosea, God shows His love and loyalty to His people. Israel “cheated” on God with other “lovers.” Again and again, Israel broke their relationship with God. But God freely chose to love His people. The people weren’t worthy of God’s love. The people rejected God’s love again and again. But God continued to give His love to His people. No one forced God to love them.

`How does the word picture of God as a husband who is cheated on help you see God in a different way? How does this word picture change the way you understand your relationship with God?`