---
title:  Love Freely Given
date:   31/12/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God continued to love Israel after Israel sinned against Him again and again. In the same way, God continues to love us after we sin. We aren’t worthy of God’s love. We also can’t earn God’s love. God doesn’t need us. The God of the Bible doesn’t need anything (Acts 17:25). God loves you, me, and everyone else because He wants to love us.

`Compare Revelation 4:11 and Psalm 33:6. What do these verses tell us about God’s freedom?`

God made the skies and this earth. So, God is worthy of getting all glory, honor, and praise. God didn’t need to make this earth or any other planet. Before God made this earth, He already enjoyed a love relationship with His Son, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit.

`Read John 17:24. What does this verse tell us about God’s love before He made the earth?`

God didn’t need to make people so that He could have something to love. God chose to make our planet because He wanted to be close to us and share His love with us.

God also continues to love us after we sin against Him. After Adam and Eve sinned, they were not good enough for God’s love anymore. Adam and Eve earned death, not life. But God didn’t punish them with death right away. God made a special plan to help save sinners and bring them back to Himself with love. God’s saving plan includes us, too.

`God continues to love sinners. What does this choice tell us about God’s mercy and love? How should this important Bible truth cause us to love God more?`