---
title:  God Invites Many People, But Few People Accept His Invitation
date:   01/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw, God loves people because He wants to love them. God invites people to love Him back, too. God gives us freedom to choose to accept or reject His love. We see this idea in Jesus’ picture story about the wedding feast.

`Read the picture story in Matthew 22:1–14. What is the meaning of this picture story?`

Jesus tells a picture story about a wedding feast. In the story, a king’s son is about to get married. The king sends out his servants to go get the guests who were invited to the wedding. But the guests do not want to come to the wedding (Matthew 22:2, 3). The king sends more servants to the guests to invite them to the feast. But the guests pay no attention to the invitation. Worse, the guests grab the king’s servants and kill them (Matthew 22:4–6).

Later, the king punishes the guests who kill some of his servants. Then the king tells the rest of his servants, “ ‘The wedding feast is ready. I invited those people, but they were not good enough [worthy] to come to my feast. So go to the street corners and invite everyone you see. Tell them to come to my feast’ ” (Matthew 22:8, 9, ERV). Jesus then talks about a man who comes to the feast without wearing the proper wedding clothes. The king orders some of his servants to throw the man out into the dark. This part of the picture story shows us that the guests must get wedding clothes from the king before they may come to the wedding feast. Jesus ends the picture story with these strange but powerful words, “ ‘Yes, many people are invited. But only a few [people] are chosen’ ” (Matthew 22:14, ERV).

What do these words mean? The “chosen” are the people who accept God’s invitation.

God invites **everyone** to the wedding feast. Any one of us can refuse God’s love. We must be free to love. God will never force His love on anyone. Sad to say, we can reject having a loving relationship with God.

God is getting wonderful things ready for the ones who love Him. These things are more wonderful than anything we can imagine in our minds.

`Have you accepted God’s wedding invitation? How does your life show you are wearing the wedding clothes?`