---
title:  Jesus Was Nailed To The Cross For Us
date:   02/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God invites everyone to enter into a love relationship with Him. First, we must freely accept His invitation if we want to enjoy everything He plans for us in heaven. As we saw yesterday, the king invited many guests to the wedding feast. But not everyone was willing to come (Matthew 22:3).

Shortly before Jesus went to the cross, He said with a sad heart: “ ‘O Jerusalem, Jerusalem! You kill the men who speak for God and throw stones at those [messengers from God] who were sent to you. How many times I wanted to gather [bring together] your children around Me, as a chicken gathers her young ones under her wings. But you would not let Me’ ” (Matthew 23:37, NLV). Jesus wanted to save His people. But the people didn’t want to be saved.

Jesus went to the cross for His people anyway. Jesus died for them and for us. We should die because of our sin. But God Himself (in Jesus) died for our sin so that we may live. God made a way to repair the broken relationship between Himself and sinners. In the meantime, God continues to give us His love. But God doesn’t need to love us. He loves us because He wants to.

`Read John 10:17, 18. Compare these verses with Galatians 2:20. What’s the message to us in these verses?`

God showed His love for us on the cross. Jesus chose to die for us because He wanted to. No one forced Jesus to give up His life for us. Jesus gave His life to help us without asking us to do something first. His choice was part of God’s saving plan. God the Father and Jesus the Son agreed to this plan before they made the skies and the earth.

“God didn’t make the plan to save us after Adam sinned. God’s saving plan was ‘the mystery hidden for a very long time.’ Romans 16:25 [NIrV]. God’s saving plan showed the important rules that were part of God’s government forever. From the beginning, God and Jesus knew that Satan would sin and cause humans to sin, too. Sin was not part of God’s plan for us. But God saw that sin would happen. So, God decided to solve the sin problem. God loved us so much that He made an agreement with His only Son to save us. God made this plan ‘so that everyone who believes in him would not be lost but have eternal [everlasting] life.’ John 3:16 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.