---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/01/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘To Meet the Bridegroom,’ ” pages 405–421, in Christ’s Object Lessons.

“People misunderstand God. This misunderstanding is the same as a dark cloud covering the earth. Men are losing their knowledge about God’s love. People misunderstand God’s love. At this time, we must announce a message from God. This powerful message will save lives. We must help people understand God’s love, mercy, glory, and truth.

“Isaiah talked about this work when he announced, ‘Jerusalem, you have good news to tell. Go up on a high mountain. Jerusalem, you have good news to tell. Shout out loud the good news. Shout it out and don’t be afraid. Say to the towns of Judah, “Here is your God.” Look, the Lord God is coming with power. He will use his power to rule [govern] all the people. Look, he will bring reward for his people. He will have their payment [reward] with him.’ Isaiah 40:9, 10 [ICB].

“The people who wait for Jesus to come must tell people, ‘Look at your God.’ We must announce God’s final message to all the people on the earth. This message will show everyone God’s love and mercy. At the same time, God’s followers must show His glory in their lives. They must show everyone else that God’s mercy changed their lives.

“The Bible truth about Jesus must cause us to do good things for other people. We must share Bible truth, and we must do holy works.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 415, 416, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Worse than the thought that there is no God is the thought that God hates us. What if God hated us? How would we behave?`

`Why do you think so many people don’t know who God is or understand about His love? How can you help people to better understand God’s love and mercy?`

`What message do we need to share today about God’s love? How can you explain this message to someone who doesn’t know God or His love? What proof can you show them to convince them about His wonderful love?`

`What things can we do to show God’s love to the people around us?`