---
title:  God Is Fair
date:   01/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read For This Week’s Lesson

Psalm 33:5; Deuteronomy 32:4; Malachi 3:6; Numbers 23:19; Matthew 5:43–48.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘But if someone wants to brag, let him brag about this: Let him brag that he understands and knows me. Let him brag that I am the Lord. Let him brag that I am kind [loving] and fair. Let him brag that I do things that are right [fair] on earth. This kind [type] of bragging pleases me,’ says the Lord” (Jeremiah 9:24, ICB).

In Bible times, the “gods” that the non-Jews worshiped did evil things. People couldn’t trust these gods or depend on them. Spiritual leaders commanded the followers of these gods to kill their own children and offer them as gifts to the gods. But even someone who killed his child and offered its dead body to the gods couldn’t depend on the god’s favor or blessing. So, the people were afraid to do anything to make the gods angry.

Deuteronomy 32:17 tells us that these gods were really demons (also read 1 Corinthians 10:20, 21). The people who worshiped these demons were confused about good and evil and right and wrong.

The God of the Bible is very different from those demons. Yahweh is perfect, holy, and never changes. Because God doesn’t change, we can trust God. He gives us hope, now and forever. Yahweh cares about people who suffer. Yahweh wants things to be fair. He judges against evil, suffering, and decisions and actions that aren’t fair. Most important, in the future, God will end these things forever.