---
title:  God Is Loving And Fair
date:   02/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

All through the Bible, God is both fair and loving. God’s love must always be fair. Also, God can be fair only if He shows love and mercy when He judges. We often think about being fair as separate from love. But that’s because, as sinners, we don’t understand how to be both fair and loving without God’s help.

`Read Psalm 33:5; Isaiah 61:8; Jeremiah 9:24; Psalm 85:10; and Psalm 89:14. How do these verses help us understand how much God cares about being fair?`

These verses announce that God loves being fair (Psalm 33:5; Isaiah 61:8). In the Bible, the ideas of love and being fair are connected and can’t be separated from each other. God’s love and His holy life are connected, too. God cares very much about what happens to His people on this earth. He wants us to be holy and fair in everything we do.

God’s prophets or special messengers warn us against not being fair. We must make fair laws and fair decisions. We must not hurt or cheat the poor, the widows, or the weak. People do much evil on this earth. But God is “always kind, fair and right” (Jeremiah 9:24, NIrV). The Bible shows us that God’s followers trust in Him to judge and punish evil people. God’s work as judge is always fair. He saves people from the ones who steal from them and hurt them.

God’s law and His work as judge are an important part of His government. God’s decisions are holy and fair and come from His love. God’s government is different from the governments that control this earth. Many of the leaders of this earth care more about getting riches and power. But God is not selfish the way they are. “God’s [Bible] truth and faithful [dependable] love join together. His peace and holiness kiss [join together with] each other” (Psalm 85:10, NIrV).

God tells us what He expects from us: “The Lord has told you what is good [holy]. He has told you what he wants from you: Do what is right [be fair] to other people. Love being kind [nice] to others. And live humbly [with no pride in your heart], trusting your God” (Micah 6:8, ICB). We need to show God’s love and mercy. We need to be fair to other people. When we do these things, we show people who God is.