---
title:  God Is Perfect And Holy
date:   03/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw already, God loves being fair. He also commands us to be fair. God **always** is fair. The Bible teaches us that God is fully holy, dependable, and loving. God always does what is loving, holy, and fair. God never does any wrong or evil.

`Read Deuteronomy 32:4 and Psalm 92:15. What do these verses teach us about God?`

These verses (and many other verses in the Bible) announce that God is fair and loving. “There is no evil in him” (Psalm 92:15, NIrV; compare with Psalm 25:8; Psalm 129:4). “He never does anything that is wrong [evil]. Every morning he does what is fair. Each new day he does the right [correct] thing. But those [people] who do what is wrong aren’t even ashamed of it” (Zephaniah 3:5, NIrV). Do you see that God is very different from those who are not fair?

God knows what is best for everyone. God also wants the best life for everyone. God always works to make the best things happen for people.

`Read Psalm 9:7, 8 and Psalm 145:9–17. What do these verses teach us about God?`

The God of the Bible is a fair Judge (Psalm 7:11). There is no evil in God’s heart (Psalm 5:4). As 1 John 1:5 teaches, “God is like [much the same as] light and he is not dark [filled with sin or evil] at all” (1 John 1:5, WE). Yes, God is perfect and holy. James 1:13 tells us that “God cannot be tempted [led into sin]. He will never tempt anyone” (NLV; compare with Habakkuk 1:13).

Many men and women worship power and powerful people. God is all-powerful, but He uses His power in ways that are fair and loving. When Moses asked God, “ ‘Now show me your glory,’ ” God said, “ ‘I will make all my goodness [love and mercy] pass in front of you’ ” (Exodus 33:18, 19, NIrV).

`Why does a loving God allow so much of the evil that is on our earth? Talk about your answer in class.`