---
title:  God Doesn’t Change
date:   04/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Malachi 3:6 and James 1:17. What do these verses teach us about God and who He is?`

In Malachi 3:6, God announces, “ ‘I am the Lord. I do not change’ ” (ICB). Some people think this verse means that God doesn’t change in any way. But when we read the whole verse, we understand that Malachi is saying that God is always holy and does what is correct. The rest of Malachi 3:6 teaches us that God’s feelings may change in His relationship with us: “ ‘That is why I have not destroyed you members of Jacob’s family’ ” (NIrV). In the next verse, God announces to His people, “ ‘Come back to me, and I will come back to you’ ” (Malachi 3:7, ERV).

So, God can, and does, enter into relationships with people who aren’t perfect. These relationships aren’t perfect. So, things in the relationships may change between God and His people. But God’s love doesn’t change. James 1:17 tells us this same Bible truth. This verse announces that every wonderful and perfect gift comes from God, who doesn’t change. God isn’t the cause of evil.

In this verse and elsewhere in the Bible, we learn that God doesn’t change. In other words, God’s love and His holy life stay the same. At the same time, God can enter into real relationships with people who aren’t perfect. God always answers us with His love. He is always fair.

`Read 2 Timothy 2:13; Titus 1:2; and Hebrews 6:17, 18. What do these verses teach us about God?`

God can’t lie. God keeps all His promises. He can’t break them. We can trust that the God of the Bible is the same God who (in Jesus) gave Himself for us on the cross because He wanted to. So, we can depend on Him and trust Him without any doubt or fear. We can trust and hope for the future because, as Hebrews 13:8 puts it, “Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever” (ERV).

`How can you learn to trust in God’s promises when you are in trouble and your life is a mess? Make a picture in your mind of God on the cross. How does this picture help you to learn to trust in God’s love and mercy?`