---
title:  God Does Not Lie
date:   05/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Can God feel sorry about something He said? Can He change His plans and decide not to do something He promised? If so, what does that change really mean? We have seen that God is always the same and dependable. But some Bible verses talk about God choosing not to do something He said He would do. As humans, we often feel sorry about things that we did wrong. God can’t sin or do wrong. So, what does the Bible mean when it says that God feels sorry about something He did or said He would do?

`Read Exodus 32:14 and compare it with Jeremiah 18:4–10. What do these verses teach us about God’s feeling sorry about something He said or did?`

In these verses and in other verses in the Bible, we read that God decides not to punish His people anymore when they show Him that they are sorry for their sins. God promises that He will not punish His people for their sins if they stop doing evil. So, God will not judge them or punish them as He planned to do.

`Read Numbers 23:19 and 1 Samuel 15:29. What do these verses teach us about God and His decisions or plans?`

These verses announce that God “is not a man. So he does not change his mind as men do” (1 Samuel 15:29, ICB). And “God is not a man, that He should lie. He is not a son of man, that He should be sorry for what He has said. Has He said, and will He not do it? Has He spoken, and will He not keep His Word?” (Numbers 23:19, NLV). When we read these verses and other ones, we understand that they are not saying that God can’t change His plans or decisions. But God doesn’t change His mind about sin in the ways that people do. God always keeps His promises. He may change His decision to judge His people if they stop doing evil. Then He may decide not to punish them. God is loving, holy, and filled with mercy. God’s decisions always agree with His love and the Bible. That’s why God may choose not to punish His people when they confess their sins and stop doing evil.