---
title:  Always Doing What Is Loving And Fair
date:   06/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible teaches, “So I want you to realize [understand] that the Lord your God is God. He is the faithful [dependable] God. He keeps his covenant [Promise] for all time to come. He keeps it [His Promise] with those [people] who love him and obey his commandments. He shows them his love” (Deuteronomy 7:9, NIrV). God showed His love for us at the cross when He gave Jesus to die for our sins (read Romans 3:25, 26; Romans 5:8). As Psalm 100:5 says, “The Lord is good. His love continues forever. His loyalty continues from now on” (ICB; compare with Psalm 89:2). So, we can trust God. God gives only good gifts to His children (James 1:17; compare with Luke 11:11–13). God also gives good things to His enemies.

`Read Jesus’ teaching in Matthew 5:43–48. What do these verses teach us about God’s amazing love? What does Jesus teach us about how we should love other people?`

Matthew 5 says that God’s love is perfect love. When we don’t have God’s perfect love in our hearts, we love only the people who love us. But God loves the ones who hate Him. God’s love is complete, and that’s why it is perfect.

God loves us more than we could hope for. But God’s love is always fair. God’s love is both fair and filled with mercy (Psalm 85:10). That’s why the Bible encourages us, “ ‘So come back to your God. Be loyal to him. Do the right [fair] thing, and always trust in your God!’ ” (Hosea 12:6, ERV). Or as another translation of this same verse says, “ ‘You must hold on to love and do what is fair’ ” (Hosea 12:6, NIrV; compare with Luke 11:42).

In the end, God will make everything fair. Romans 2:5 teaches us, “The day of God’s anger is coming. Then his way of judging fairly will be shown” (Romans 2:5, NIrV). Finally, the saved ones will sing: “ ‘You do great and wonderful things, Psalm 111:2 / Lord God, the God of heaven’s armies. Amos 3:13 / Everything the Lord does is right and true, Psalm 145:17 / King of the nations. Everyone will respect you, Lord. Jeremiah 10:7 / They will honor you. Only you are holy. All people will come and worship you. Psalm 86:9, 10 / This is because he is a faithful [dependable] God who does no wrong. He is right [holy] and fair.’ Deuteronomy 32:4” (Revelation 15:3, 4, ICB).