---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   07/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “God’s Love for Man,” pages 9–15, in Steps to Christ.

“The Bible tells us about God. God announces that His heart is filled with pity and love. When Moses prayed, ‘Now, please show me your Glory.’ Exodus 33:18 [ERV]. ‘The Lord answered, “I will cause all my goodness [love and mercy] to pass in front of you.” ’ Exodus 33:19 [ICB]. Then the Lord passed in front of Moses and announced His glory: ‘As he passed in front of Moses, he called out. He said, “I am the Lord, the Lord. I am the God who is tender [filled with mercy] and kind [loving]. I am gracious [forgiving]. I am slow to get angry. I am faithful [can be trusted] and full of [filled with] love. I continue to show my love to thousands of people. I forgive those [people] who do evil. I forgive those [people] who refuse to obey me. And I forgive those who sin.” ’ Exodus 34:6, 7 [NIrV]. . . .

“God gives us many blessings from heaven and on earth to cause us to love Him. God uses nature and our loving relationships with other people to show Himself to us. At the same time, both nature and our loving relationships can’t show us fully who God is. God gives us much proof of His love, but Satan causes people to be afraid of God. Satan tricks people into believing that God is mean and nasty and won’t forgive them. Satan leads people to think that God is a mean judge. Satan made people think that God watches over them and waits for them to make a mistake, so He can punish them. But Jesus came to this earth to live among people to show us that God is love.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 10, 11, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is it important to understand that God’s glory and honor are connected to His love?`

`Do you sometimes wonder why God allows so much evil to happen in life? Why does a God who is loving and filled with mercy let bad things happen? How do you answer these questions? How can you help someone who is asking the same questions, too?`

`How does the worldwide war between God and Satan help us understand all of the evil that we see on this earth now?`