---
title:  Despised and Rejected of Men
date:  19/09/2022
---

`Read the following texts, all the while keeping in mind the fact that Jesus was divine, the Creator of heaven and earth, and that He came to offer Himself as a sacrifice for the sins of the whole world (Matt. 12:22–24; Luke 4:21–30; John 8:58, 59). How do these texts help us understand the sufferings that Jesus faced here on earth?`

Whether by leaders, or even by the common people, Jesus’ life, acts, and teaching were constantly misunderstood, leading to rejection and hatred from people He came to save. In a certain sense, it must be like a parent who sees a wayward child in need of help, and though the parent is willing to give everything for that child, the child spurns the parent, heaping scorn and rejection upon, perhaps, the only person who can spare that child from utter ruin. That’s what Jesus faced while here on earth. How painful it must have been for Him.

`Read Matthew 23:37. What does it tell us about how Christ felt about the rejection? As you read, ask yourself, too, Was He feeling bad for Himself (as we often do when facing rejection), or was it for another reason? If for another reason, what was it?`

We’ve all felt the sting of rejection, and maybe our pain was similar to Christ’s in that it was unselfish: we were pained, not because we were rejected, but because of what the rejection would mean for the one who was rejecting us (perhaps someone we care about who refuses to accept salvation in Christ). Imagine, though, how it must have felt to Jesus, who was fully aware of what He was to face in order to save them, and at the same time fully aware of what the consequences of their rejection would be. “It was because of His innocence that He [Christ] felt so keenly the assaults of Satan.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, p. 129.

`What can you learn from Christ that can help you better cope with the pain of rejection? What does His example show you? How can you apply it to your own life?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

A human body and a human mind were [Christ’s]. He was bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh. He was subjected to poverty from his first entrance into the world. He was subject to disappointment and trial in his own home, among his own brethren. He was not surrounded, as in the heavenly courts, with pure and lovely characters. He was compassed with difficulties. He came into our world to maintain a pure, sinless character, and to refute Satan’s lie that it was not possible for human beings to keep the law of God. Christ came to live the law in his human character in just that way in which all may live the law in human nature if they will do as Christ was doing. He had inspired holy men of old to write for the benefit of man: “Let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; and he shall make peace with me” (Isaiah 27:5).—Selected Messages, book 3, pp. 129, 130.

[The] scribes and Pharisees . . . were filled with envy because the people listened so attentively to the words of this new Teacher. They determined to break His hold upon the multitudes. They began by attacking His character, saying that He was born in sin, and that He cast out devils through the prince of the devils. Thus were fulfilled the words “They hated me without a cause” (John 15:25; cf. Psalm 69:4). The Jewish leaders maligned and persecuted the One who is chiefest among ten thousand and altogether lovely.<br/>
As we separate from the world and its customs, we shall meet with the displeasure of worldlings. The world hated the One who was the very embodiment of virtue, because He was better than they were. The servant is not greater than his Lord. If our ways please God, the world will hate us. If the Majesty of heaven came to this world, and endured a life of humiliation and a death of shame, why should we shrink back because obedience involves a cross? If He was persecuted, can we expect better treatment? . . . I point you to the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. He will comfort and sustain all who come to Him for help.—The Upward Look,  p. 325.

The tears of Jesus were not in anticipation of His own suffering. Just before Him was Gethsemane, where soon the horror of a great darkness would overshadow Him. . . . Yet it was not because of these reminders of His cruel death that the Redeemer wept and groaned in anguish of spirit. His was no selfish sorrow. The thought of His own agony did not intimidate that noble, self-sacrificing soul. It was the sight of Jerusalem that pierced the heart of Jesus—Jerusalem that had rejected the Son of God and scorned His love, that refused to be convinced by His mighty miracles, and was about to take His life. He saw what she was in her guilt of rejecting her Redeemer, and what she might have been had she accepted Him who alone could heal her wound. He had come to save her; how could He give her up?—The Desire of Ages, p. 576.