---
title:  Apostasy and Punishment
date:  30/09/2021
---

“ ‘All that the Lord has spoken we will do’ ” (Exod. 19:8, NKJV; see also Exod. 24:3, Exod. 24:7). Though, no doubt, the people had meant those words each time they said them, sacred history shows that, unfortunately, their actions time and again contradicted their words. Though they were the chosen people, though they had entered freely into the covenant with the Lord, they didn’t keep up their end of the deal, which really came down to one thing.

`What was the crucial component for Israel in regard to the covenant? Exod. 19:4, 5.`

The call to obey God, to keep His law, was no more legalism then than it is now (see Matt. 7:24–27; John 14:15; James 2:20; Rom 6:11, 12), and yet, again and again the children of Israel failed to keep up their end of the deal.

Indeed, early on, even in the very sight of Mount Sinai itself, they fell into rank apostasy (see Exod. 32:1–6). Unfortunately, unfaithfulness seemed to be more the norm than the exception, and, thus, instead of quickly entering into the Promised Land, they wandered in the wilderness for 40 years.

`Read Numbers 14:28–35. What was the punishment meted out to the nation because of the people’s refusal to trust what the Lord had told them to do?`

Then, as now, so often disobedience occurs as a result, not just of outright rebellion (though that does happen), but from a failure to trust in what God tells us. What made this sin even more heinous for Israel was the fact that, as God Himself said, all these men had “ ‘seen My glory and the signs which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have put Me to the test now these ten times’ ” (Num. 14:22, NKJV). Despite all that they had seen and experienced, they still refused to obey the Lord and to take the land, despite God’s promises that they would succeed (Numbers 13, Numbers 14).

`Think about what was said above: that so often disobedience comes from a lack of trusting in God’s Word to us. Why is this true, and how can we, indeed, learn to trust in God more?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Aaron died at Mount Hor, for the Lord had said that he should not enter the Promised Land, because, with Moses, he had sinned at the time of bringing water from the rock at Meribah. Moses and the sons of Aaron buried him in the mount, that the people might not be tempted to make too great ceremony over his body, and be guilty of the sin of idolatry.<br/>
Moses was soon to die, and he was commanded to gather the children of Israel together before his death and relate to them all the journeyings of the Hebrew host since their departure from Egypt, and all the great transgressions of their fathers, which brought His judgments upon them, and compelled Him to say that they should not enter the Promised Land. Their fathers had died in the wilderness, according to the word of the Lord. Their children had grown up, and to them the promise was to be fulfilled of possessing the land of Canaan. Many of these were small children when the law was given, and they had no remembrance of the grandeur of the event. Others were born in the wilderness, and lest they should not realize the necessity of their obeying the Ten Commandments and all the laws and judgments given to Moses, he was instructed of God to recapitulate the Ten Commandments, and all the circumstances connected with the giving of the law.—_The Story of Redemption_, pp. 168, 170.

We cannot overestimate the value of simple faith and unquestioning obedience. It is by following in the path of obedience in simple faith that the character obtains perfection. Adam was required to render strict obedience to God’s commandments, and no lower standard is presented to those who desire salvation [today]. . . . [Christ] says, “Whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever; even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive.” . . .<br/>
. . . The world is leagued against the truth, because it does not desire to obey the truth. Shall I who perceive the truth close my eyes and heart to its saving power because the world chooses darkness rather than light?—Letter 119, Feburary 18, 1895.

God desires His people to prepare for the soon-coming crisis. Prepared or unprepared, they must all meet it; and those only who have brought their lives into conformity to the divine standard, will stand firm at that time of test and trial. When secular rulers unite with ministers of religion to dictate in matters of conscience, then it will be seen who really fear and serve God. When the darkness is deepest, the light of a godlike character will shine the brightest. When every other trust fails, then it will be seen who have an abiding trust in Jehovah. And while the enemies of truth are on every side, watching the Lord’s servants for evil, God will watch over them for good. He will be to them as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 431.