---
title:  Beyond Isles and Suns
date:  07/05/2023
---

#### inGest

After His ascension to heaven (Acts 1:9), Jesus visited the last of the living apostles, John, on the island of Patmos, where he had been exiled by the ruthless Roman emperor Domitian.

Even though he was separated from the support of his family, friends, and the Christian community, John was not left alone in the tribulations and trouble he faced as a follower of Christ. His ministry was not over. His witness was not complete. An angelic visitor of dazzling brightness visited John on that lonely isle and brought him a message directly from the throne of God. This message from Jesus was to echo through the centuries down the corridors of time. It is a message of hope for every generation, but especially for God’s last-day people. It is a serious message of warning as well as one of encouragement as we prepare to face the trials of the final days (or any trials we might be facing now) and anticipate Jesus’ second coming.

If you were to enter the cave where it is purported that the heavenly angel brought Revelation’s prophetic vision to John, you would immediately notice these words, placed on a plaque at its entrance, that summarize the entire book of Revelation: “Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (Rev. 14:7).

The central issue in the book of Revelation is worship. We were created as worshiping beings. Every one of us worships something or someone. True worship, the worship of the Creator, enables us to discover life’s true purpose. It gives us a reason for living. It gives us not only something to die for but also, even more significantly, something to live for and, if need be, to endure tribulations for. Indeed, as the final crisis arises, we will better understand the words that “we must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God” (Acts 14:22).

Revelation 14:7 ends with a clarion call to worship the Creator. This call is especially important now, when most of the scientific and even the Christian world has accepted evolution, a teaching that strikes at the very core of all things biblical and Christian. If evolution were true, our faith would, of necessity, be a lie. That’s how stark the issues are.

Revelation’s final appeal, then, is rooted in the Bible’s first book, Genesis. We will never fully understand the issues in this cosmic battle over worship unless we understand the significance of Creation. “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth” (Gen. 1:1). This verse is the foundation of all of Scripture. “In the beginning God created.” The Hebrew word for “create” in this passage is bara’, a verb that is used exclusively with God Himself as the subject.

To get just a small idea of how unlimited God’s power is, let’s consider just one object of His creation: the sun. The sun produces more energy in one second than humanity has produced by oil, gas, coal, or fire since the beginning of time.

The sun has a diameter of approximately 865,000 miles and could hold 1 million planets the size of earth. But the sun is just one of at least 100 billion stars in our galaxy, the Milky Way. One star, called the Pistol Star, gives off as much as 10 million times the power generated by our sun. One million stars the size of our sun could easily fit within the sphere of the Pistol Star. How do we even begin to wrap our minds around the enormity of creation?

Creation reveals a God of awesome might and unlimited power. His creative power not only brought the heavens and earth into existence but has also worked on behalf of His people through the centuries. He is the God who began this world, who is ever-present in this world, and who will never forsake His people in this world.

Journal:

`How does the overwhelming size of the Creation only amplify the reality of God’s love?`

`How does it affect your faith to know that God personally listens to each of us and cares deeply about each of our troubles?`

` `