---
title:  The Transcendent and Immanent Creator and Redeemer
date:  08/05/2023
---

#### inTerpret

The God of Creation, who brought the sun, moon, and stars into existence, whose awesome power created this planet and filled it with living things, is also a God who is interested in each one of us. He is the God who delivered His people from Egyptian bondage, who guided them in their wilderness wanderings, who rained manna out of heaven, who caused the walls of Jericho to collapse, and who defeated Israel’s enemies. The same God who unleashed His infinite power to create the universe unleashes that infinite power to defeat the forces of evil that wage the battles for our souls.

Theologians talk about the transcendence of God, the idea that God exists above and over all of creation. But they also talk about the immanence of God, which is the idea that God somehow also exists within our world and, as biblical history shows, is intricately and intimately involved in it. Though the Lord dwells in a “high and holy place,” He is also “with him who has a contrite and humble spirit” (Isa. 57:15). As Jesus Himself said when speaking of His faithful followers: “I in them, and You in Me; that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that You have sent Me, and have loved them as You have loved Me” (John 17:23). It doesn’t get closer and more intimate than that.

The great news about our God is that His greatness and power are so vast that they reach across the cosmos and into each of our lives. He promises to remake us, mold us, transform us into the likeness of His image. Think about what that means. The God who created and sustains billions of galaxies is the same God in whom we not only “live, and move, and have our being” (Acts 17:28), but who also works in us to give us new hearts, to purge us of sin, and to make us into new creatures in Christ. What a powerfully comforting thought to realize that our God, a God of such power, loves and cares for us.

Now reread the first angel’s message. Everlasting gospel. Hour of judgment. Worship the Creator. Look at how closely related these ideas are. When we stand before our Creator in judgment, it’s only the gospel that gives us any hope at all. “There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit” (Rom. 8:1). No condemnation now, and certainly not in the judgment.

The message of God as Creator is central to present truth, especially when evolution, even when dressed up in “Christian” garb, threatens to destroy the entire foundation of the Christian faith.

Yet amid the onslaught of evolutionary thought, God has raised up a church, a people whose very name itself is a witness against the idea of evolution—a people who are to proclaim the foundational truth of God as our Creator and Redeemer.

Look at how closely tied Jesus as Creator is to Jesus as Redeemer in Ephesians 3:9, Colossians 1:13–17, Revelation 4:11, and Romans 5:17–19. The moment His role as Creator is diminished, as evolution inevitably does, His role as our Redeemer comes into question as well. Why would Jesus redeem us from sin, death, suffering, and violence when sin, death, suffering, and violence are, as evolution teaches, the very means of creation itself? God redeems us from the very process He used to create us to begin with? It’s a dangerous lie.

And what makes it even worse is that evolution mocks the very idea of Jesus’ death on the cross. Paul (see Rom. 5:17–19) inseparably links the introduction of sin by Adam to the death of Jesus. There’s a direct link, then, between Adam and Jesus. In any evolutionary model, however, no sinless Adam could have introduced death, because death—millions of years of death—was supposedly the force and power needed to create Adam to begin with.

Right from the start, evolution destroys the biblical foundation of the cross. In contrast, Seventh-day Adventists, by calling the world to worship the Creator, stand as living witnesses against this error.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we learn to draw hope and comfort from understanding the immanence of God? Or does it scare you because God knows your darkest secrets? How should the gospel give you peace in that context?`

` `