---
title:  Jesus Everywhere
date:  24/06/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 1–7**

**Jesus Everywhere**

Jesus is the first, last, and best thing about the Bible. Ellen White puts it like this: “In giving up His Son, He has poured out to us all heaven in one gift” (Steps to Christ [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1956], p. 21). From Genesis to Revelation, Jesus is revealed through people, stories, symbols, and sacrifices. Jesus said, “You search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of Me.” (John 5:39), and when He was giving a Bible study as He walked with two followers toward the town of Emmaus, the Bible says, “He expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself” (Luke 24:27). The apostle Paul understood this is as well, showing “from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ” (Acts 18:28).

Why is Jesus everywhere in Scripture? When the devil deceived humanity in the Garden of Eden, Jesus immediately took charge of our fate. It was Jesus who gave the first promise of redemption, took the first life of the sacrificial lamb, gave Noah the blueprints for the ark, walked and talked with the patriarchs, led Israel in a pillar of fire, gave the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai, gave Moses the architectural drawings for the tabernacle, filled the tabernacle with His glory in Exodus and Leviticus, and was represented by the sacrificial offerings (1 Cor. 5:7), the holy priests (Heb. 4:14), the table of showbread (John 6:35), the candlesticks (John 8:12), the door (John 10:9), and the curtain (Heb. 10:20). In fact, the more you pay attention to the details pointing to Jesus in Leviticus, the deeper your understanding of what Jesus was saying and doing in the Gospels will be.

#### inScribe

Outline Leviticus 1–7 from the translation of your choice. You may also paraphrase the chapters in your own words, or mind-map each of the five ritual sacrifices (burnt offering, grain offering, peace offering, sin offering, and trespass offering).

` `