---
title:  Levitical Illuminations
date:  25/06/2023
---

#### inGest

One powerful example of how Leviticus illuminates Jesus’ words in the New Testament is found in John 6. Speaking to a crowd of people, Jesus said, “I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever; and the bread that I shall give is My flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world” (John 6:51). The student of Leviticus will know right away that Jesus was not promoting cannibalism but was instead proclaiming that He is the one represented in the Levitical sacrifices.

Interestingly, the peace offering was called “food, an offering made by fire to the Lord” (Lev. 3:11) and the grain or meal offering was actually made of unleavened bread (Lev. 2:4). Jesus was effectively saying, “I am the grain and peace offering! I am the one who makes it possible for you to be at peace with God, and I am the one who gives you both physical and spiritual life.” A second powerful example is found in John 10:7, where Jesus referred to Himself as “the door.” Those who have studied Leviticus will realize that He was claiming to be the gorgeously designed curtain that divided the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. Through Jesus, who is “the door,” we can have direct access to God and His throne of grace, mercy, and power (Lev. 1:4; John 10:9; Heb. 4:16; Rev. 4:5).

A third example is in John 14:6. When Jesus said, “No one comes to the Father except through Me,” He was not only claiming to be the only door that leads into the throne room of God (the Holy and Most Holy places) but was also warning that it is dangerous and even deadly to approach God without Him. God wants us to come boldly into His presence, but this is possible only through faith in Jesus and His atoning (covering) blood (Lev. 10:1, 2; John 14:6; Heb. 4:16).

Hopefully, you can see from these few examples how understanding Leviticus can help us understand the New Testament and the deeper meanings behind the words of Jesus. To neglect Leviticus is to miss out on the spiritual richness of Christ’s words and may even cause us to misunderstand or misinterpret them. Studying Leviticus is therefore essential if we wish to understand the Gospels more fully. Let’s put this even more emphatically: there are portions of the New Testament that you cannot understand fully without first understanding the book of Leviticus.

The book of Leviticus may be one of the most neglected books in all Scripture, but it is also one of the most Christ-centered books you will ever read. It was written by Moses and is part of the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible.

In the book of Exodus, God gave Moses the architectural drawings for the sanctuary, but in Leviticus, He gave Moses the guidelines for worshipping in the sanctuary. Sanctuary worship reveals the way to God. Psalm 77 says, “Your way, O God, is in the sanctuary” (v. 13). Sanctuary worship reveals Jesus who is “the way” (John 14:6) You are being invited in the book of Leviticus to know Jesus better!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Leviticus 1–7. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`What makes Leviticus so difficult to read? What methods of study make it easier to understand?`

`Make note of all the verbs in the seven chapters. What pattern emerges?`