---
title:  The Offerings
date:  28/06/2023
---

#### inVite

Each kind of sacrifice points to the eternal love offered to the world on Calvary. Like the four Gospels in the New Testament, each sacrifice in Leviticus reveals another aspect or allows an in-depth look at our Savior, His mercy, and His justice, all revealed on the cross. Each type of sacrifice points to the Messiah.

_1. He would be sinless._ In the first seven chapters of Leviticus, we learn that the Messiah would be blameless, perfect, spotless, and sinless. We know this because the animals designated by God for sacrifices (e.g., ox, goat, ram, lamb, dove, pigeon) had to be without any “blemish” (Lev. 1:3). This is no doubt why Jesus claimed that He was without sin (John 8:46) and that He always did what pleased His Father (John 8:29).

_2. He would be a sacrifice._ We also discover that the coming Messiah would lay down His life, as the sacrificial animals did (Lev. 4:27–29). Imagine how it could have gone had the people and His own disciples understood this identifier. Instead, they wrongfully believed that the Messiah would be a conquering king instead of the suffering servant foretold by Isaiah (chap. 53). They were looking for a temporal hero, not a spiritual one. But hundreds of years before, Leviticus predicted that the Messiah would lay down His life to save the world!

_3. He would be a sin bearer._ Interestingly, when the animal was slain by the sinner at the door of the tabernacle (Lev. 1:4, 5), the blood was caught in a bowl by the officiating priest and either sprinkled on the altar of burnt offering or taken inside the tabernacle and sprinkled before the curtain dividing the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. Either way, the blood of the animal carried away the sins of the sinner. No wonder John the Baptist shouted, “Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!” when he saw Jesus (John 1:29).

It’s also interesting to note that the sinner would lay one hand on the head of the sacrifice and confess his sins upon it before taking the animal’s life (Lev. 1:4, 5; 5:5, 6). This is essentially what we do when we confess our sins to God. We are placing them upon the head of Jesus, who died for us 2,000 years ago, and accepting our responsibility for His death. In other words, Jesus becomes our substitute and takes our sins upon Himself (Lev. 1:4; 1 Pet. 2:24).

_4. He would be a “sweet aroma.”_ The smoke coming from the burnt sacrifices were considered a “sweet aroma to the Lord” (Lev. 1:9). Everywhere Jesus went, the atmosphere came alive with His presence. In both Ephesians 5:2 and Philippians 4:18 our Savior is described as a “sweet-smelling aroma.”

If the Jews had not lost Jesus in their understanding of the temple services, they would have been much quicker to identify Him. This applies to us as well—the more we see Jesus in Leviticus, the more we are assured that the Jesus in the New Testament matches up perfectly with the criteria of our promised Savior and Messiah.

**Meditate on Leviticus 1–7 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you through the texts of the week?`

`What are some aspects of Jesus, His actions, or His words that you remember from your study of His life that are reflected symbolically in the sacrificial services?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`