---
title: 'Unexpected Defeat'
date: 02/11/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 7, 8

**Unexpected Defeat**

Have you ever been so confident after a victory that you rushed headlong into your next challenge, only to face humiliating defeat? Joshua could relate. Riding on the wings of their extraordinary success at Jericho, the Israelites felt confident about their next battle. Forgetting their own weaknesses, they charged ahead, expecting another grand victory. Joshua wasted no time in dispatching spies from the smoldering ruins of Jericho to go scout out their next target. The journey from Jericho to the city of Ai was a roughly twelve-mile (19-km), uphill climb. Ai was nestled in the hill country at about 2,600 feet (790 m) above sea level, while Jericho was located down in the Jordan Valley at about 900 feet (274 m) below sea level. As the spies assessed Ai, they concluded that the people of this city were few and could easily be overthrown. Returning down the hill, the spies urged Joshua to send a small fighting force of no more than three thousand men to accomplish this seemingly straightforward mission. Joshua agreed and allowed the remainder of the people to rest in the camp.

Despite the Israelites’ initial confidence, the people of Ai quickly repelled the Israelite forces and sent them into a disastrous retreat down the hill, felling thirty-six men along the way. While thirty-six casualties sounds like a small number compared to other battles, we must remember that Israel had just taken Jericho without suffering a single casualty. They thought God would fight these battles for them. Clearly, God was not fighting for them at Ai the same way He had at Jericho.

This unexpected setback demoralized the entire camp and caused deep concern about what would happen next. The Israelites were dwelling in an unfortified camp that didn’t even have walls. Would the Canaanites hear about their failure and take advantage of their exposed position? Without God’s protection, they had every reason to worry about their safety. In a sign of total horror about this devastating loss, Joshua tore his clothes, threw dust on his head, and fell on the ground before the ark of the covenant, crying out to God, “Why? … What shall I say? … What will You do?” (Josh. 7:7–9). It’s a raw prayer filled with tears and hard questions. In the secrecy of prayer, Joshua even expressed some doubt: “Oh, that we had been content, and dwelt on the other side of the Jordan!” (v. 7). It was indeed a low moment for Joshua, but he fled to God for refuge.

Sometimes God must allow us to suffer crushing defeat before we’re willing to slow down, do some heart searching, ask the tough questions, and wait for Him. It’s these dark valleys in our lives that become defining moments where we find new answers and new direction from above. The story of Ai challenges us to be careful not to take too much credit for our successes, lest God allow an embarrassing defeat to get our attention again. This story invites us to stay humble and rely on God, no matter how much success we’re blessed with. Sometimes our own Jericho experiences make us feel too safe and too confident about the future. Before long, we press forward in our own wisdom and strength and lose our dependency on God.

As the story eventually reveals, the spies underestimated Ai’s strength and overestimated Israel’s. When Israel went back to Ai the second time, Joshua took more than ten times as many warriors as he had sent the first time. In the second battle, twelve thousand people from Ai fell. However, the real problem underlying Israel’s original defeat had nothing to do with the numbers; it had to do with Israel breaking its covenant with God, caused by the sin of one man. Joshua was about to receive the answers to his heartbroken questions—and they wouldn’t be pleasant.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 7:1–13 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 7, 8._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `