---
title: 'A Broken Covenant'
date: 03/11/2025
---

### inGest

Joshua understood that the defeat at Ai was caused by God withdrawing His blessing from Israel. Because Israel had violated their covenant, God could not continue to bless them. This wasn’t merely one individual’s personal sin; the whole camp of Israel was corporately responsible for their covenant with God. “_Israel_ has sinned, and _they_ have also transgressed My covenant which I commanded them. For they have even taken some of the accursed things” (Josh. 7:11, emphasis added). This was a national crisis. Legally, Israel had broken their agreement with God and forfeited their privileges as God’s covenant people. Beyond that, Israel had to be “doomed to destruction” just like their enemies unless the covenant could be repaired (v. 12).

Before Jericho was taken, God had been unmistakably clear that everything in Jericho was devoted to Him. _Nothing whatsoever_ was to be taken for spoil or personal use. Joshua announced to everybody, “And you, by all means abstain from the accursed things, lest you become accursed when you take of the accursed things, and make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it” (Josh. 6:18). Nobody could pretend they hadn’t understood or hadn’t heard. To disregard God’s command was to trivialize His miracle at Jericho and reject His covenant with Israel.

There was only one solution. The Lord told Joshua to get up and “sanctify the people” (7:13). This word _sanctify_ also means to “set apart.” God had set Israel apart from the world in both identity and practice. By choosing to bring an accursed thing into the camp, they again chose to identify with the world. This accursed thing had to be removed to restore themselves as God’s covenant people. “You cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the accursed thing from among you” (v. 13).

Joshua addressed the multitude and gave everyone a night to search their hearts and confess their sins. Lots were drawn the next day, which eventually singled out a man named Achan as the guilty party. With nowhere to hide, Achan acknowledged that he saw, coveted, and took forbidden items from the ruins of Jericho. The items included a beautiful garment imported from Babylon, about five pounds (2.3 kg) of silver, and a wedge of gold weighing about 1.3 pounds (0.6 kg). Hoping to hide his gains, Achan had hurried the items into his tent and buried them in the dirt—but there’s no hiding from God. Achan condemned himself, not only by his own testimony but also by the undeniable evidence retrieved from his tent. Because he identified himself with the things of Jericho, Achan had to suffer the same punishment as the people of Jericho.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`How can we differentiate between covetousness and good stewardship?`

`How can we guard against the temptation to identify with the things of the world instead of separating from them?`