---
title: 'Silence and Collusion'
date: 04/11/2025
---

### inTerpret

One of the challenging parts of Achan’s story is that his whole family was stoned to death with him. However, it’s important to note that Achan’s children were not punished for their father’s sins. Scripture condemns the injustice of punishing children for their parents’ sins. The generation that executed Achan and his family undoubtedly remembered how God saved the sons of Korah when they refused to join their father’s rebellion. In a dramatic moment of Divine judgment, Korah, his co-conspirators Dathan and Abiram, and Dathan’s and Abiram’s wives and children, were all swallowed by a big sinkhole (Num. 16:27). However, Korah’s sons separated from their father’s tent and were spared (26:11). No doubt the surviving sons of Korah were still alive at Achan’s time.

Through the law of Moses, God firmly established every person’s distinct, personal accountability: “Fathers shall not be put to death for their children, nor shall children be put to death for their fathers; a person shall be put to death for his own sin” (Deut. 24:16). During the times of the Israelite kings, King Amaziah remembered and acknowledged this law as an important pillar of true justice (2 Kings 14:6). The prophets also reinforced the importance of this principle centuries later (Ezek. 18:20). Knowing how careful God was to never punish children for their fathers’ sins, we can safely conclude that Achan’s family aided and abetted his secret mission. His sons and daughters stayed silent and were not absolved of responsibility in following their father to do evil.

The natural human tendency is for children, whether they’re young or old, to follow in the same evil as their parents. The story of Korah’s sons represents the exception to the usual pattern. By God’s grace, anybody who belongs to a family with an Achan or a Korah can follow the inspiring example of Korah’s sons. When there’s blatant sin or open rebellion, children who are old enough to have their own identity should not affirm or enable their parents to do evil. In these difficult situations, the children should find a way to be faithful to God. In the most extreme cases, where the parents’ sins involve crimes, children should report the crime to authorities, seek help, and separate from their parents. Sometimes children feel obligated to comply with everything their parents require regardless of whether it’s moral—and this goes for adults, too. However, Paul wrote, “Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right” (Eph. 6:1). This means children should obey their parents only to the extent that the parents honor God. When parents direct their children to dishonor the Lord, the children should show that their allegiance to God comes first.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can children honor their parents when their parents are doing wrong?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 7, 8. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._