---
title: 'Saved from the Curse'
date: 06/11/2025
---

### inVite

After carrying out the sentence on Achan, God sent Israel back to Ai with the assurance of His blessing. This time, Israel gained the victory, the people of Ai fell, and the city was burned. With the first two cities of Canaan taken, it was time for Israel to pause the war and renew their covenant with God. The loss of Achan’s family was a sobering reminder of how important and serious it was to protect their covenant relationship with God. The addition of Rahab’s family to the covenant community reminded Israel of God’s mercy and salvation.

Though the Israelites were surrounded by powerful enemies, they left their camp at Gilgal and walked about twenty miles (32 km) into enemy territory to the valley between Mount Gerizim and Mount Ebal to confirm their covenant with God (Josh. 8:30–35). This long journey included wives, children, and the foreigners among them. Twice, Moses gave instructions for this covenant ceremony, which they were to conduct after their arrival in the land of Canaan (Deut. 11:29; 27:1–26).

Six tribes stood on Mount Gerizim to affirm the blessings of keeping the law. The other six tribes were stationed on Mount Ebal, where they responded with an “Amen!” to every curse spoken against those who break God’s law. Standing in the valley between the two mountains, Joshua read all the words of the law in the hearing of the entire nation. The law was not only read audibly but was also written on stones as a national memorial and a testimony to future generations. As stones were erected to memorialize God’s miracle at the Jordan, so stones were put in place to memorialize God’s law and His covenant with Israel.

Moses left instructions for the priests to host similar public readings of the law every seven years when they assembled at the temple for the Feast of Tabernacles (Deut. 31:9–13). These public readings would help children learn the law and remind the whole family of their covenant relationship with God.

Mount Ebal symbolized the curses of the law, but this mountain also held a pledge of God’s redemption and forgiveness. On Mount Ebal, Joshua built an altar to the Lord on which they sacrificed burnt offerings and peace offerings. Each sacrifice pointed forward to Jesus, who “redeemed us from the curse of the law” when He came to this world and offered Himself as a sacrifice (Gal. 3:13). The altar pointed forward to the only One who can rescue anyone from the curse of sin. Israel’s only hope lay in the promise of the altar.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`In what ways did Jesus save us from the curse of the law?`

`Joshua moved Israel deep into enemy territory for the recommitment ceremony. What risks is God asking you to take?`