---
title: 'The Sin of Covetousness'
date: 07/11/2025
---

### inSight

“Achan’s sin was committed in defiance of the most direct and solemn warnings and the most mighty manifestations of God’s power. ‘Keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves accursed,’ had been the proclamation to all Israel. The command was given immediately after the miraculous passage of the Jordan, and the recognition of God’s covenant by the circumcision of the people—after the observance of the Passover, and the appearance of the Angel of the covenant, the Captain of the Lord’s host. It had been followed by the overthrow of Jericho, giving evidence of the destruction which will surely overtake all transgressors of God’s law. The fact that divine power alone had given the victory to Israel, that they had not come into possession of Jericho by their own strength, gave solemn weight to the command prohibiting them from partaking of the spoils. God, by the might of His own word, had overthrown this stronghold; the conquest was His, and to Him alone the city with all that it contained was to be devoted.…

“The deadly sin that led to Achan’s ruin had its root in covetousness, of all sins one of the most common and the most lightly regarded. While other offenses meet with detection and punishment, how rarely does the violation of the tenth commandment so much as call forth censure.…

“Covetousness is an evil of gradual development. Achan had cherished greed of gain until it became a habit, binding him in fetters well-nigh impossible to break. While fostering this evil, he would have been filled with horror at the thought of bringing disaster upon Israel; but his perceptions were deadened by sin, and when temptation came, he fell an easy prey.

“Are not similar sins still committed, in the face of warnings as solemn and explicit? We are as directly forbidden to indulge covetousness as was Achan to appropriate the spoils of Jericho. God has declared it to be idolatry. We are warned, ‘Ye cannot serve God and mammon.’ Matthew 6:24.… We have before us the fearful doom of Achan, of Judas, of Ananias and Sapphira. Back of all these we have that of Lucifer, the ‘son of the morning,’ who, coveting a higher state, forfeited forever the brightness and bliss of heaven. And yet, notwithstanding all these warnings, covetousness abounds.”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_ [1890], 495–497.