---
title: inQuire
date: 08/11/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Israel’s first defeat:**

1. What problems contributed to Israel’s defeat at Ai? _Read Josh. 7:1–13._
2. When do you think it is appropriate to ask God hard questions like Joshua did in his prayer? _See Josh. 7:6–9._

`Personal reflection: From your experience, why do you think God sometimes has to wait until we’re at our lowest before He can give us new answers?`

**The sin of covetousness:**

1. How and why did Achan’s sin impact God’s relationship with the whole nation? _See Josh. 7:11–13._
2. What reasons can you identify for God strictly forbidding the Israelites from taking any spoil from Jericho? _Read Josh. 6:18, 19._
3. Why were Achan’s children stoned with him? Consider other Bible stories, such as those mentioned in this week’s inTerpret section.
4. Why does society often treat covetousness as a lesser sin? How seriously does God take the sin of covetousness? _Think about the story of Ananias and Sapphira from Acts 5:1–11._

`Personal reflection: What are common ways Christians hide secret sins today?`

**The nation restored:**

1. Why did Joshua risk everything to take the whole camp of Israel deep into enemy territory? _Read Josh. 8:30–35._
2. What was the meaning and significance of this special covenant ceremony?

`Personal reflection: What have you risked or lost to make your covenant relationship with God top priority?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- God does not quickly or easily abandon His people, but He cannot bless us the way He wants when we cling to cherished sin.
- Our sins always impact other people somehow.
- God is eager to restore His people when we make Him a priority.