---
title: 'The Time For God To Judge All People'
date: 29/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Daniel 8:14; Daniel 8:17, 19, 26; Daniel 9:23; Romans 5:6–9; Leviticus 16:16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “There is another reason for doing what is right. You know what time it is. It is time for you to wake up from your sleep. The time when we will be taken up to be with Christ is not as far off as when we first put our trust in Him. Night is almost gone. Day is almost here” (Romans 13:11, 12, NLV).

Several years ago, National Geographic magazine told a story about a forest fire. The fire happened in Yellowstone National Park in the United States. After the fire ended, several park rangers went up a mountain to look at the damage from the fire. One park ranger found a bird burned to ashes next to the roots of a tree. The sight of the bird made the ranger feel sick and upset. The ranger knocked over the bird’s ashes with a stick.

When the bird fell over, the ranger saw three baby birds under the mother’s wings. The ranger was surprised at what the mother bird did to protect them from the fire. She carried her babies to the tree roots. Then she hid them under her wings. The mother could have flown away. But she refused to leave her babies. Jesus loves us this much, too.

At the cross, God judged Jesus as a sinner who must die. Jesus died so that we could be judged as holy citizens in God’s kingdom in heaven. God judged Jesus as a criminal so that He can free us from everlasting fire. This fire will burn up all sin and everyone who refuses to accept God’s mercy and forgiveness for their sins.