---
title: 'The Time When God Cleans His Temple From Sin'
date: 30/04/2023
---

As we already saw, God must do His work as Judge before Jesus comes. The first angel announces, “ ‘The time has come for God to judge all people’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). The book of Daniel tells us when this time starts.

`Read Daniel 8:14. When does Daniel say God will make His temple in heaven clean?`

In Bible times, the Jews knew that the temple on earth was made clean on the day when God judged His people. Daniel understood this teaching about God cleaning heaven’s temple from sin. Daniel understood the teaching about God’s work as Judge, too. But Daniel was confused about the 2,300 days that we read about in Daniel 8:14.

`Read about Daniel’s experiences in Daniel 8:27 and Daniel 9:21, 22. What happened to Daniel after God showed him the dream about the 2,300 days? What did God do for Daniel?`

At the end of Daniel 8, Daniel faints. Later, Daniel says, “I was filled with wonder because of the special dream, and did not understand it” (Daniel 8:27, NLV). The dream Daniel is talking about in this verse is about the 2,300 days. Daniel didn’t understand the time part of the dream. The angel already explained the rest of the dream to Daniel. In Daniel 9, the angel Gabriel comes to explain to Daniel about the 2,300 days. Gabriel says, “ ‘Daniel, I have come to give you wisdom and to help you understand’ ” (Daniel 9:22, ERV).

Gabriel explains the 2,300 days to Daniel. Gabriel shows Daniel the Bible truth about this time message. Gabriel explains when Jesus will come. Gabriel gives Daniel the exact dates when Jesus will start His work on earth and when He will die. These things are connected to the time when God will clean the temple in heaven, in Daniel 8. So, what does this information show us? It shows us that Jesus’ death and God’s work as Judge are connected.

`In Daniel 9:24–27, we read about Jesus’ death. His death is connected with God’s work as Judge, in Daniel 8:14. What important Bible truth does the connection between these verses teach us?`