---
title: 'The 2,300 Days And The End Times'
date: 01/05/2023
---

`Read Daniel 8:17, 19, 26. For how many real years do the 2,300 days continue? When do the 2,300 days start in history? When does this time end? Why is this answer so important?`

Some people say that the 2,300 days are only real days. These people believe that the little horn in Daniel 8 is about the Greek army leader Antiochus Ephiphanes, who lived from 216 b.c. to 164 b.c. Antiochus attacked Jerusalem and the Jewish temple. But the 2,300 days do not show us Antiochus. Also, the angel Gabriel said that the dream about the 2,300 days is about the end times. So, the 2,300 days can’t be about Antiochus at all, because Antiochus didn’t live at the end times.

In Daniel 8, Gabriel starts his explanation about the 2,300-day time message. Gabriel says the male sheep is a word picture for the kingdom of Media-Persia. The male goat is a word picture for Greece (Daniel 8:20, 21). The next kingdom is the little horn. The little horn is a word picture for Rome (Daniel 8:9, 23, 24). Next, Gabriel says that Rome will become a government that also is religious. At this time, Rome, or the little horn, will cause people to “turn away from God,” which is the same as “throwing [Bible] truth down to the ground” (Daniel 8:12, ICB; also read Daniel 8:10, 11, 25). Rome also will interfere with the work Jesus does in heaven’s temple for God’s people (Daniel 8:10–12). Then in Daniel 8:14, we read about how God will clean heaven’s temple from sin. God will punish the religious powers and governments on this earth that tried to steal control from Him. This special work also is part of God’s answer to the sin problem.

Gabriel is ready to give to Daniel more information about the 2,300 days. At the end of Daniel 8, we see that Daniel didn’t understand the part of the dream about the 2,300 days (Daniel 8:27). Gabriel already explained the earlier part of Daniel’s dream about the male sheep, the goat, and the little horn (Daniel 8:20, 21). But Gabriel didn’t explain about the time when God will clean His temple.

Gabriel tells Daniel: “ ‘You are highly respected. So as soon as you began to pray, the Lordord gave you a message. I have come to tell you what it is. Here is how you must understand the vision [dream]’ ” (Daniel 9:23, NIrV). What dream? As we will see tomorrow, this is the 2,300 days.