---
title: 'What The Angel Tells Daniel To Do'
date: 02/05/2023
---

Read about the angel Gabriel’s advice to Daniel, in Daniel 9:23. What does Gabriel tell Daniel to do? Why is this advice important? How does this advice help us to understand Daniel 8:14 and the time when God will clean heaven’s temple from sin?

Gabriel tells Daniel to “ ‘think about the message and understand the vision [dream]’ ” (Daniel 9:23, ICB). What message? What dream? Daniel 9 doesn’t talk about any dream. So, Gabriel must be talking about part of the dream in Daniel 8. That is the part about the 2,300 days that Daniel didn’t understand (Daniel 8:27).

`Read Daniel 9:24–27. In these verses, Gabriel continues to explain the 2,300-day time message. What important things does Gabriel say will happen in Jesus’ life?`

The first part of this time message talks about God’s people, the Jews. Gabriel announces, “ ‘God has allowed 70 weeks for your people and your holy city, Daniel’ ” (Daniel 9:24, ERV). In time messages, one day is the same as one real year (Ezekiel 4:6; Numbers 14:34). This rule is named the day-for-a-year rule, or the day-year rule for short. When we use the day-year rule in Daniel’s time message in Daniel 8:14, we can understand the dates and times perfectly. (Read tomorrow’s study for more on this topic.) Another way of writing 70 weeks is 490 days (that is because there are 490 days in 70 weeks). When we use the day-year rule, the 490 days become 490 real years.

Gabriel tells Daniel that the “ ‘Seventy weeks [or 490 days, which are 490 real years] are given for your people’ ” (Daniel 9:24, NLV). Do you see the words written as “are given”? These words come from a Hebrew word that can mean “to cut off,” “to divide or separate,” or “to decide.” Cut off from what? What are the 70 weeks or 490 real years cut off from? They only can be cut off from the 2,300 days of Daniel 8:14. That is the only other time message that Gabriel mentions. The 490 years connect back to the time message in Daniel 8:14, which is the only part of the dream that Gabriel didn’t explain. Daniel 8:14 is the only time message in Daniel 8, too. So, we can see that Gabriel comes to help Daniel understand what he didn’t understand in Daniel 8: the 2,300 days.