---
title: 'The Savior Will Die'
date: 03/05/2023
---

The 490-year time message starts with the command to build Jerusalem again. This command is very important to the Jews. In Ezra 7, we see that this command happened in 457 B.C. At that time, the Jews left Babylon and went home to their own country. The Jews also became a religious community again (read Ezra 7:13, 27).

In the fall of 457 B.C., King Artaxerxes commanded the Jews to go home and build their city. Daniel announced 483 years would pass from the time the Jews started building their city to the time when the Savior started His work on earth. If we start at 457 B.C. and add 483 years, we arrive at A.D. 27.

In A.D. 27, Jesus Christ, the Savior, was baptized. (Read Matthew 3:13–17.) So, we can see that Daniel announced the exact year for Jesus’ baptism several hundred years before Jesus got baptized. At that time, Jesus started His work on earth for three-and-a-half years.

`Read Romans 5:6–9 along with Daniel 9:26. What important Bible truths do we learn from these verses?`

The angel Gabriel explains to Daniel, “ ‘And after the sixty-two weeks Messiah [the Chosen One; the Savior] shall be cut off [killed], but not for Himself’ ” (Daniel 9:26, NKJV). The Savior will be “cut off.” He will die on the cross. The verse adds, “but not for Himself.” What does that verse mean? It means that Jesus died to save us, and not Himself. That is why Paul writes, “But God showed His love to us. While we were still [continued to be] sinners, Christ died for us” (Romans 5:8, NLV).

In Daniel 9:27, we see that the Savior will “make an agreement with many people for 7 years. He will put a stop to offerings and sacrifices after 3½ years” (Daniel 9:27, ICB). What does this mean? This verse is talking about the final week of the 70-week time message. At this time, in A.D. 31, Jesus kept the promise that God made to His people. Jesus kept this promise with His blood, which He offered for our sins when He died on the cross. Jesus became the sin offering. So, the Jews no longer needed to bring animal offerings for their sins to the temple.

`Read Mark 15:38 and Matthew 3:15, 16. How do these verses help us understand Daniel 9:24–27?`