---
title: 'The Year 1844'
date: 04/05/2023
---

The first part of the 2,300-year message is the 70 weeks or 490 years. The 490 years show us what will happen in Jewish history before these things happen, from building Jerusalem again to the time Jesus dies on the cross. The last part of the 2,300 years is about God’s people, both Jews and Christians. This last part also shows us that God will clean His temple and Jesus will come again.

The 490 years are about the First Coming of Jesus. The 490 years end in A.D. 34. When we subtract 490 years from 2,300 years, we are left with 1,810 years. The 1,810 years are about what will happen to God’s people after Stephen is killed with stones. If we start at A.D. 34 and add 1,810 years, we come to A.D. 1844.

In Revelation 14:6, 7, God makes His final offer to save the Jewish people and everyone else. God’s offer includes an announcement about His work as Judge in the end times. As part of His work, God will make the temple in heaven clean from sin. God wants everyone to accept His love and mercy. God also commands people who live in the end times to be holy and to obey His law.

`Why did the holy tent on earth need to be cleaned? Read Leviticus 16:16 for the answer. What does this teach us about the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin?`

The holy tent on earth had to be cleaned because the people’s sins made it dirty. Only blood can make the holy tent clean. The same thing is true for us. We need a Savior who will help us when God judges us. The Old Testament animal offerings were killed on the Day When God Makes Everything Clean. This Day is also named Yom Kippur or the Day of Atonement. These animal offerings are a word picture for the life and death of Jesus.

`In Old Testament times, what did God command His people to do on the Day When God Makes Everything Clean? Read Leviticus 23:26–29 for the answer. What does this answer show us that we must do today?`

God’s people needed to show God that they were sorry for their sins. They needed to empty their hearts of all pride. They needed to confess their sins, stop sinning, and ask God to make them clean. The people did these things while the top spiritual leader cleaned the holy tent on earth.