---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 05/05/2023
---

Here’s a fast and easy way to understand the 70-week time message in Daniel 9:24–27. This time message has three important parts:

1. 70 weeks or 490 years total (Daniel 9:24).
2. The 7 weeks and 62 weeks, or 69 weeks (Daniel 9:25), which are part of the 70 weeks.
3. The final week, or 70th week (Daniel 9:27).

The final week is divided in half, or “in the middle of the ‘week’ ” (Daniel 9:27, NIrV). That means the week is divided into two parts: each part is 3 1/2 years.

That’s it. So, we have 70 weeks, which are made of 69 weeks and one week. That one week is divided in half. Start the 70 weeks at the date 457 b.c. Then do the math. Also, when we add 2,300 years to 457 b.c., we come to a.d. 1844.

Remember, Daniel doesn’t tell us when the 2,300 days start. The Bible only says, “ It will take [the things in Daniel’s dream will happen after] 2,300 evenings and mornings [days]. Then the temple will be made holy again’ ” (Daniel 8:14, NIrV). So, when do the 2,300 days start? Why not start the 2,300 days from the time when Daniel saw the dream? Daniel saw this dream “during the third year that Belshazzar was king” (Daniel 8:1, ICB).

But the date that Daniel saw the dream can’t be the date when the 2,300 days start. Why? Because the dream in Daniel 8 doesn’t include Babylon. The dream starts with the things that happen after Babylon ends. Daniel 8 starts with the kingdom of Media-Persia, goes to the kingdom of Greece and then Rome, then to the end times. The day that God cleans the temple is part of Daniel’s dream in Daniel 8. But the kingdom of Babylon is not part of the dream in Daniel 8. So, why say that the time until the day that God cleans His temple starts from the time of the kingdom of Babylon? The start date for the day God cleans His temple should come from the dream itself. The dream starts with the kingdom of Media-Persia and continues to the end times. That’s a lot of years! Daniel 9, and not Daniel 8, tells us when the 2,300 days start.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the connection between the Good News about Jesus and God’s work as our Judge?`

`Think more about Daniel 9:26. Why was Jesus “cut off” (NKJV)? What does that word picture mean?`