---
title:  The Influence of Materialism
date:   30/12/2017
---

**Introduction**: Gen. 3:3; Deut. 8:18; Ps. 24:1

**Are You a Good Manager?**

From the very beginning, as shown in Genesis 3:3, God made it clear that He owns the world and everything in it. We are called, as God’s stewards, to manage that which belongs to Him. While God has graciously entrusted us with the care, development, and enjoyment of everything He owns, as His stewards, we are responsible to manage His holdings well and according to His desires and purposes. Why, then, do we have the attitude that all that God has entrusted to us is our own?

“The primary concern of those to whom [Jesus] spoke was for the material things of life. Their sense of values was warped. They did not recognize the principle that every steward is entitled to the care of his master. If they recognized themselves as stewards of God, they were then entitled to God’s care for their daily needs. He told them to seek the kingdom of heaven first, and He would satisfy their physical needs.”<sup>*</sup>

Psalm 24:1 reminds us that “the earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.” The Creator and Owner of everything asks for so little in return. Why do we find it so difficult to trust Him, obey Him, and honor Him? He has given us so much; much more than we deserve.

Stewardship expresses our obedience with regard to the management of everything God has placed under our control, which is all-encompassing. Stewardship is the commitment of one’s self and possessions to God’s service. “Remember the Lord your God, for it is He who gives you power to get wealth” (Deut. 8:18, NKJV). We are called as God’s stewards to manage that which belongs to Him, using the abilities and talents He has given us. All that we have, all that we can do, is given to us by the Lord. We are responsible to manage His holdings well and according to His desires and purposes.

This world is not our home, neither are the things in it. What will be our answer on the day when each one of us will be called to give an account for how we have managed what the Master has so unselfishly given us?

<sup>* Melvin E. Rees, God’s Plan for Social Security (Mountain View, Calif: Pacific Press®, 1970), p. 21.</sup>

_Brenda Hiser Wilson, Jefferson, Texas, USA_