---
title:  Stewardship and Salvation
date:   31/12/2017
---

**Logos**: Matt. 16:24; Luke 12:15–21; Rom. 5:12

**Original Stewardship** (Rom. 3:23; 5:12)

Probably the most famous stewardship story is also the most unrecognized. In Genesis 2, we have Adam and Eve set in the Garden to steward (take care of) the garden. However, by the next chapter, they follow Satan’s suggestions and not God’s governance. Since that time, God has been trying to restore in us an understanding that He still loves us and desires to entrust us with what is His.

Since the time of Adam and Eve, we have all experienced the pain and suffering of their unfaithfulness to God’s Word. Thereby, we have all become subject to death, because we have all sinned and fall short of the glory of God (Rom. 3:23; 5:12). However, death was not the only consequence; now even our very natures have been corrupted (Eph. 2:3). So even if we want to do good, we cannot (Rom. 3:12). However, all hope is not lost!

**Original Sacrificial Giving** (Rom. 8:32)

In the Old Testament, we read about the practice of the various offerings. This form of giving was known to be more than mere offerings. Whether they were offerings of their own labor, which were not accepted, or offerings of praise and thanksgiving, all offerings were also known as sacrifices (Gen. 4:3–5; 2 Chron. 29:31). People had to give up the very best of their flocks, so it certainly was a sacrifice.

The sacrifice, or offering, literally included the spilt blood of the victim. The victim was then placed upon the altar and eventually burned up or consumed, representing an individual’s expression of praise, peace, thanksgiving, and devotion to God. God, in turn, ultimately demonstrated His devotion and love to us by literally sacrificing (offering) His own Son on our behalf (Rom. 8:32).

In the sacrifice of Jesus, we also see redemption. Most people, when they hear the word stewardship, instinctively think of money, but the word stewardship is intimately connected to the word redeem, which means “to buy back.” When Adam and Eve fell and lost the intimate relationship they once had with God, God still covenanted that He would redeem them. When Jesus came to the earth to die on the cross as our ultimate sacrifice and atonement, He redeemed humanity. He bought and brought us out of captivity and into His transformative grace.

**The Christians’ Call to Sacrifice** (Matt. 16:24)

The sacrifice of Christ was not only for our salvation from sin but also for an example of how to live selflessly. This example is to be repeated by the followers of Christ. Since Christ’s sacrifice on the cross was complete, the process that He is trying to work in us is to be a complete work. He didn’t halfheartedly give of Himself when He died on the cross, and so Christ is not calling for a 50 percent Christian but calling a Christian who is totally committed to Him—to give entirely of themselves for His service and glory.

Therefore, stewardship is really the demonstration of the conversion experience through the power of the Holy Spirit to transform hearts and lives so they can live the life God has truly called us to live—the selfless life.

More simply, Jesus is calling for us to live like He did. By the example of sacrificially giving Himself on the cross to redeem and reclaim us as His own, He is also calling us to a life of self-denial and to take up our own cross and follow Him (Matt. 16:24; Mark 8:34; Luke 9:23).

**From Selfish to Selfless** (Luke 12:15; Gal. 2:20)

In spite of our sinfulness, our bent toward selfishness, Christ has given us a way to weed out our selfishness and act like He did. The promises of God’s Word connect us to Him, and we, thereby, can become partakers of the divine nature (2 Pet. 1:4). As Christians, we are to be “crucified with Christ” (Gal. 2:20, NKJV), not to live the life of our old, sinful, selfish natures but to have Christ live in us. “In Him we live and move and have our being” (Acts 17:28, NKJV). So as Christians who are committed to Christ, stewardship is not only the commitment of what we have but also a recognition of how completely Christ possesses us.

Jesus wants us to recognize that we are more than what we possess (Luke 12:15). That’s why it is true that we are not saved by what we give; we cannot save ourselves by giving more; but we could be lost by not giving what we should (see Luke 12:15–21). God has called us to be a special people who are the repositories of His grace (Deut. 7:6; 1 Pet. 2:9, 10). Therefore, God trusts that we will faithfully share who He is, what He is about, and what He will do. If He had not, we would not have the Great Commission of Matthew 28, and, more particularly, the mandate of Revelation 14:6–12.

Finally, stewardship not only works in the process of restoring us into the unselfish character of Jesus but will determine our fitness for heaven. At least two times Jesus plainly gives the idea that our faithfulness or unfaithfulness in the little things will determine whether we can be entrusted with more (Luke 16:10; 19:17). We may even ask ourselves, if we cannot be entrusted with the few responsibilities we have here, can we really be trusted in heaven?

**React**

`1. What areas of my life have I committed to Jesus? What areas of my life have I not completely committed to Jesus?`

`2. What am I willing to give in response to what Jesus has given for me?`

_Malcolm S. Douglas, Tucson, Arizona, USA_