---
title:  Un-selfie
date:   01/01/2018
---

**Testimony**: 2 Pet. 1:7

In our society’s culture, a selfie is meant to epitomize our perfection. These self-centered photographs are taken to boast of our beauty, exult in our excess, and gloat in our greed. We tweet, Instagram, and Facebook our me-ness often and obsessively. Jesus advocated a countercultural stance—the un-selfie—a life of kind service.

“The work of beneficence is twice blessed. While he that gives to the needy blesses others, he himself is blessed in a still greater degree. The grace of Christ in the soul is developing traits of character that are the opposite of selfishness,—traits that will refine, ennoble, and enrich the life. Acts of kindness performed in secret will bind hearts together, and will draw them closer to the heart of Him from whom every generous impulse springs. The little attentions, the small acts of love and self-sacrifice, that flow out from the life as quietly as the fragrance from a flower—these const itute no small share of the blessings and happiness of life. And it will be found at last that the denial of self for the good and happiness of others, however humble and uncommended here, is recognized in heaven as the token of our union with Him, the King of glory, who was rich, yet for our sake become poor.”1

“We should cultivate every faculty to the highest degree of perfection, that we may do the greatest amount of good of which we are capable. . . .”2

“When you meet those who are careworn and oppressed, who know not which way to turn to find relief, put your hearts into the work of helping them. It is not God’s purpose that His children shall shut themselves up to themselves, taking no interest in the welfare of those less fortunate than themselves. Remember that for them as well as for you Christ has died. Conciliation and kindness will open the way for you to help them, to win their confidence, to inspire them with hope and courage.”3

**React**

`1. Have you ever performed an altruistic act? What was your motivation for your action?`

`2. Have you ever been the recipient of an act of kindness? What was the impact of it upon your heart?`

1. Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pp. 82, 83.
2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 330.
3. Ellen G. White, My Life Today, p. 242.

_Althea Collins, Calhoun, Georgia, USA_