---
title:  Stewardship Motives of the Heart
date:   03/01/2018
---

**How-to**: Exod. 20:17; Isa. 14:13, 14; Luke 12:15; Phil. 2:5–8

Have I and mine become the trends of this generation? Our world propagates the good life—an abundant and prosperous one. It teaches that money, power, and wealth are the key desirables driving the society it operates. Self and self-interest are the key attributes of the popular and celebrated. Money, fame, and power are exemplified, put on display, and glorified in society.

Romans 12:2 says, “And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God” (NKJV).

The world paints the idea that you can start from nothing and attain a highlevel lifestyle with hard work. This, coupled with selfishness, drives the characteristics of greed, power, and injustice. Luke 12:15 says, “And He said to them, ‘Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one’s life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses’ ” (NKJV). Through Christ’s words, Luke shows us the direct correlation, of which we need to be cautious. This “dream” causes us to lose focus on our whole reason for existence here on earth.

Our lives, time, and efforts are gifts from God. He allows us to reap the benefits and blessings from serving Him and bringing Him glory as He works through us His will and plan. This is the concept also laid out in Philippians 2:3, “Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself” (NKJV). Employing the characteristics God has laid out keeps us from falling for Satan’s deceptions, where the center of focus is on self and nothing else.

We are to be like Christ and exemplify His character of love. Christ’s way has always been humbleness, and He desires us to follow His example: “Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus” (Phil. 2:5, NKJV). Such a stark contrast from that of Satan: “For you have said in your heart: / ‘I will ascend into heaven, / I will exalt my throne above the stars of God’ ” (Isa. 14:13, 14, NKJV)! The choice is up to each person. With every decision, we choose who is on the throne of our hearts. Choose you this day whom ye will serve (Josh. 24:15).

**React**

`1. Why does God caution against materialism?`

`2. How does faithful stewardship (of money, talents, characteristics) encourage obedience to God?`

`3. What are some practical ways to prevent the societal norms of materialism?`

_Philip Shaw, Orlando, Florida, USA_