---
title:  'Time and Priorities: The Currencies We Trade Daily'
date:   04/01/2018
---

**Opinion**: Ps. 90:12; James 4:13, 14

Dreams—we all have them. As children, we dream of what we will become. As high-school graduates, we dream of where we will further our education. Then we plot out our ideal career, hope for that secure future we’ve always wanted, and count on having the family we believe will complete it all for us. Then, finally, we will be happy.

Yet, amid the planning and “success,” we easily become so wrapped up in our goals that many of us almost automatically forget the necessity of finding meaning and happiness during the journey itself—rather than in ourselves.

James 4:14 asks the question “What is your life?” (NKJV). In that question, he bids us to reflect upon our dreams and question their true value. He reminds us that life is a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Because we don’t know where life will lead, our plans should include not only mindfulness of our earthly life but also good stewardship of our time with eternal life in mind.

Throughout my college years, I became so enraptured by my need to succeed and support my way through that toward my last year that I was balancing three part-time jobs alongside packed semesters. As a theology student, studying to live a life of ministry and service for others, you can imagine how much time I had left to actually serve and do ministry where I was. However, I had logical reasons. I had to work so that I could pay for school and make ends meet. I had to keep a perfect grade point average (GPA) so that my scholarships would be maximized.

Finally, during my last semester, God caught my attention and began to show me how disorganized and unfulfilling my priorities really were. Yes, what I was doing was “important” for me, but there were also students and friends all around me who needed friendship, encouragement, and mentoring, with their entire life directions in fluctuation. God had called me to ministry not to invest time in myself but to be a good steward by using it to bless others. Looking back, that simple shift of priority and time was the most fulfilling decision I made in college.

**React**

`1. Why does James rebuke people who make plans for their future in James 4:13–15?`

`2. What are some ways to make where you are right now in life more meaningful by adjusting your priorities to bless others?`

_Eric Louw, Dallas, Texas, USA_