---
title:  Eternal Treasure
date:   05/01/2018
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 6:19–21, 24; John 15:5; Gal. 2:20

**Conclude**

The word stewardship frequently brings a mental association with managing assets to gain greater wealth. However, being a good steward may also mean intentionally denying oneself of earthly pleasures to focus on things of Christ. We are reminded throughout Scripture that earthly wealth can separate us from God. If our eyes are fixed only on things of the world, then our true priorities clearly rest in the here and now; by fixing our eyes on things of heaven and denying ourselves every whim and pleasure now, we show that our identity is in Christ and our hearts are fixed on eternal treasure.

**Consider**

- Sharing with a friend an area of your life in which you feel you are investing too strongly in the world. Invite your friend to help you brainstorm ways you can adjust your priorities and ask your friend to hold you accountable for making changes.
- Writing a poem or song that expands on the ideas in Matthew 6:19–21 regarding storing up treasure in heaven instead of earthly wealth. Share your writing with your Sabbath School class or small group.
- Making a list of areas in which you could improve spending habits. Next to each area, write at least one practical way you can change that habit. Write one of this week’s Bible verses at the top of the list to remind yourself of what is truly important.
- Taking a walk or hike in nature, focusing on the simple beauty of God’s creation. As you walk, pray that God will clear your mind of earthly desires and replace those longings with a focus on His kingdom.
- Journaling about ways you feel you are focusing too heavily on things of earth. Take time to reflect and pray over those areas, asking God to help you shift your focus to things of heaven. Be sure to follow up in your journal with the ways God compels you to change.
- Brainstorming a list of areas in your life in which you would be willing to make sacrifices in order to take care of the needs of others (sometimes the biggest problem with “ the world ” is that we think it revolves around us). Pick one area from your list and actively make a change to benefit those around you.

**Connect**

1. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, chapter 43, “Trying to Serve God and Mammon.”
2. NAD Stewardship Department, Faith and Finance.

_Allison Sauceda, Centerville, Ohio, USA_