---
title:  The Final Judgment
date:  18/12/2022
---

For many, the idea of judgment means condemnation. And though that’s part of the process, we mustn’t forget that the idea of judgment has a positive side, in that judgment also involves the vindication of the righteous. Actually, the book of Daniel refers to an end-time judgment “ ‘in favor of the saints of the Most High’ ” (Dan. 7:22, NKJV). God’s judgment includes both—a principle found in this Old Testament text: “ ‘Then hear in heaven, and act, and judge Your servants, condemning the wicked, bringing his way on his head, and justifying the righteous by giving him according to his righteousness’ ” (1 Kings 8:32, NKJV).

`Read Matthew 25:31–46 and John 5:21–29. How did Christ point to the concepts of both condemnation and vindication in the final judgment?`

Some claim that the expressions “ ‘is not judged’ ” (John 3:18, NASB) and “ ‘will not be judged’ ” (John 5:24, NIV) mean that those who are in Christ are not judged at all. But these expressions imply that believers are not _condemned_ in the judgment. Hence the texts should be understood as saying “ ‘is not condemned’ ” (John 3:18, NIV) and “ ‘shall not come into condemnation’ ” (John 5:24).

In short, our destiny is determined in our present life. Those in Christ have their vindication at the judgment already assured, and those who are not in Christ remain under condemnation. Describing the judgment (Matt. 25:31–46), Christ mentioned the presence not only of the goats (wicked) but also of the sheep (righteous). And the apostle Paul stated explicitly, “For all of us must appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each may receive recompense for what has been done in the body, whether good or evil” (2 Cor. 5:10, NRSV).

While reflecting on the judgment, we should keep in mind that we are saved by grace (Isa. 55:1, Eph. 2:8–10), justified by faith (Gen. 15:6, Rom. 5:1), and judged by works (Eccles. 12:14, Matt. 25:31–46, Rev. 20:11–13). The basis of the judgment process is God’s moral law as summarized in the Ten Commandments (Eccles. 12:13, 14; James 1:25; James 2:8–17). Our works are the external evidences of the genuineness of our saving experience and, consequently, the elements to be appraised during judgment.

Remember: there is no arbitrary decree from God electing some to be saved and others to be lost. Each one is morally responsible for his or her own destiny.

In the end, the judgment is not the time when God decides to accept or reject us, but the time when God finalizes our choice as to whether or not we have accepted Him—a choice made manifest by our works.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ is a risen Saviour; for, though He was dead, He has risen again, and ever liveth to make intercession for us. We are to believe with the heart unto righteousness, and with the mouth make confession unto salvation. Those who are justified by faith will make confession of Christ. “He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life” (John 5:24). The great work that is wrought for the sinner who is spotted and stained by evil is the work of justification. By Him who speaketh truth he is declared righteous. The Lord imputes unto the believer the righteousness of Christ and pronounces him righteous before the universe. He transfers his sins to Jesus, the sinner’s representative, substitute, and surety. Upon Christ He lays the iniquity of every soul that believeth. “He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him” (2 Corinthians 5:21).<br/>
Christ made satisfaction for the guilt of the whole world, and all who will come to God in faith, will receive the righteousness of Christ, “who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed” (1 Peter 2:24). Our sin has been expiated, put away, cast into the depths of the sea. Through repentance and faith we are rid of sin, and look unto the Lord our righteousness. Jesus suffered, the just for the unjust.—_Selected Messages, book 1_, p. 392.

Paul endeavored to direct the minds of his hearers to the one great Sacrifice for sin. He pointed to the sacrifices that were shadows of good things to come, and then presented Christ as the antitype of all those ceremonies—the object to which they pointed as the only source of life and hope for fallen man. Holy men of old were saved by faith in the blood of Christ. As they saw the dying agonies of the sacrificial victims they looked across the gulf of ages to the Lamb of God that was to take away the sin of the world.<br/>
God justly claims the love and obedience of all His creatures. He has given them in His law a perfect standard of right. But many forget their Maker and choose to follow their own way in opposition to His will. They return enmity for love that is as high as heaven and as broad as the universe. God cannot lower the requirements of His law to meet the standard of wicked men; neither can man in his own power meet the demands of the law. Only by faith in Christ can the sinner be cleansed from guilt and be enabled to render obedience to the law of his Maker.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 424, 425.