---
title:  The Pre-Advent Judgment
date:  19/12/2022
---

The concept of judgment before the return of Christ, or what we call a “pre-Advent” judgment, is found in many places in Scripture.

`Read Daniel 7:9–14; Matthew 22:1–14; Revelation 11:1, 18, 19; and Revelation 14:6, 7. How do these passages shed light on the notion of a pre-Advent investigative judgment in the heavenly courtroom? What is the significance of such a judgment?`

The concept of a pre-Advent investigative judgment of God’s people is grounded in three basic biblical teachings.

One is the notion that all the dead—righteous or unrighteous—remain unconscious in their graves until the final resurrections (John 5:25–29).

The second is the existence of a universal judgment of all human beings (2 Cor. 5:10, Rev. 20:11–13).

The third is the fact that the first resurrection will be the blessed reward for the righteous, and the second resurrection will be eternal death for the wicked (John 5:28, 29; Rev. 20:4–6, 12–15).

What this means is that if all human beings will be judged, they should be judged _prior_ to their respective resurrections, because at those resurrections they will receive their final rewards.

The book of Daniel helps us to understand both the time and the nature of that pre-Advent judgment. At the end of the 2,300 symbolic days—in 1844—the heavenly sanctuary would be cleansed (Dan. 8:14, compare with Heb. 9:23) and the pre-Advent investigative judgment would begin (Dan. 7:9–14), two different ways of expressing the same event. And the judgment is “ ‘in favor of the saints of the Most High’ ” (Dan. 7:22, NKJV). That is, it’s good news for God’s people.

In Matthew 22:1–14, Jesus spoke of an investigation of the wedding guests before the wedding feast actually started.

And in the book of Revelation, the pre-Advent investigative judgment is referred to in the task of measuring “ ‘those who worship’ ” in the temple of God (Rev. 11:1, NKJV) and in the announcement that “ ‘the hour of His judgment has come’ ” (Rev. 14:6, 7, NKJV; compare with Rev. 14:14–16).

`How should our knowledge of a judgment in heaven impact how we live here on earth?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We are each deciding our eternal destiny, and it rests wholly with us whether we shall gain eternal life. Will we live the lessons given in the Word of God, Christ’s great lesson book? It is the grandest, and yet the most simply arranged and easily understood book ever prepared for giving an education in proper behaviour, in speech, in manners, in affection. It is the only book that will prepare human beings for the life that measures with the life of God. And those who make this Word their daily study are the only ones who are worthy of receiving a diploma entitling them to educate and train the children for entrance into the higher school, to be crowned as victorious overcomers.<br/>
Christ Jesus is the only judge of the fitness of human agents to receive eternal life. The gates of the holy city will open to those who have been humble, meek, lowly followers of His, having learned their lessons from Him, and received from Him their life insurance policy, forming characters after the divine similitude.—My Life Today, p. 339.

In the great day of final atonement and investigative judgment, the only cases considered are those of the professed people of God. The judgment of the wicked is a distinct and separate work, and takes place at a later period. . . . The books of record in heaven, in which the names and the deeds of men are registered, are to determine the decisions of the judgment. . . .<br/>
The book of life contains the names of all who have ever entered the service of God. Jesus bade His disciples, “Rejoice, because your names are written in heaven.” Luke 10:20. Paul speaks of his faithful fellow workers, “Whose names are in the book of life.” Philippians 4:3. . . .<br/>
“A book of remembrance” is written before God, in which are recorded the good deeds of “them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name.” Malachi 3:16. Their words of faith, their acts of love, are registered in heaven.—The Faith I Live By, p. 210.

As the books of record are opened in the judgment, the lives of all who have believed on Jesus come in review before God. Beginning with those who first lived upon the earth, our Advocate presents the cases of each successive generation, and closes with the living. Every name is mentioned, every case closely investigated. Names are accepted, names rejected. When any have sins remaining upon the books of record, unrepented of and unforgiven, their names will be blotted out of the book of life, and the record of their good deeds will be erased from the book of God’s remembrance. The Lord declared to Moses: “Whosoever hath sinned against Me, him will I blot out of My book.” Exodus 32:33.—The Great Controversy, p. 483.