---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/12/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Without a Wedding Gar-ment,” pp. 307–319, in Christ’s Object Lessons; “Desolation of the Earth,” pp. 653–661; “The Controversy Ended,” pp. 662–673, in The Great Controversy.

“In the day of final judgment, every lost soul will understand the nature of his own rejection of truth. The cross will be presented, and its real bearing will be seen by every mind that has been blinded by transgression. Before the vision of Calvary with its mysterious Victim, sinners will stand condemned. Every lying excuse will be swept away. Human apostasy will appear in its heinous character. Men will see what their choice has been. Every question of truth and error in the long-standing controversy will then have been made plain. In the judgment of the universe, God will stand clear of blame for the existence or continuance of evil. It will be demonstrated that the divine decrees are not accessory to sin. There was no defect in God’s government, no cause for disaffection. When the thoughts of all hearts shall be revealed, both the loyal and the rebellious will unite in declaring, ‘Just and true are Thy ways, Thou King of saints. Who shall not fear Thee, O Lord, and glorify Thy name? . . . for Thy judgments are made manifest.’ Rev. 15:3, 4.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 58.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“If you cling to self, refusing to yield your will to God, you are choosing death. To sin, wherever found, God is a consuming fire. If you choose sin, and refuse to separate from it, the presence of God, which consumes sin, must consume you.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 62. How does this quote help us understand the nature of the executive judgment?`

`Dwell on the idea (presented at the end of Tuesday’s study) that not one of the lost will face final judgment until after the redeemed have been part of the judging process. Again, what does this teach us about the openness and transparency of God? For a universe in which love reigns, why is this transparency so important?`

`How will the participation of the saints in the millennial judgment comfort them in regard to their loved ones who will be lost?`