---
title:  Prophecy Fulfilled 
date:  17/01/2021
---

In Isaiah 7:14–16, Immanuel is a sign linked to the specific dilemma of Ahaz: Before the child Immanuel would be old enough to decide between different kinds of food, “the land before whose two kings you are in dread will be deserted” (Isa. 7:16, NRSV). This refers to the land and kings of Syria and northern Israel (see Isa. 7:1, 2, 4–9) and reiterates God’s promise that their power would soon be extinguished.

`Why does Isaiah mention “ ‘curds and honey’ ” (NRSV) that the boy would have to eat? Isa. 7:15.`

The crops and fields of Judah would be destroyed by the Assyrians (Isa. 7:23–25). So the people, including the Old Testament Immanuel, whoever he was (Isa. 7:14, 15), would be forced to return to the diet of nomads (Isa. 7:21, 22). But while they would be poor, they would have enough on which to survive.

`When was the prophecy regarding Syria and northern Israel fulfilled? 2 Kings 15:29, 30; 2 Kings 16:7–9; 1 Chron. 5:6, 26.`

This prophecy of Isaiah was given about 734 B.C. In response to the bribe of Ahaz, Tiglath-pileser III did what he probably would have done anyway: He smashed the northern coalition, conquered the Galilee and Transjordanian regions of northern Israel, deported some of the population, and turned the territories into Assyrian provinces (734–733 B.C.). The remainder of Israel was saved when Hoshea, after murdering King Pekah, surrendered and paid tribute. In 733 and 732 B.C. Tiglath-pileser conquered Damascus, the capital of Syria. Then he made Syria into Assyrian provinces. So, by 732, within about two years of Isaiah’s prediction, Syria and Israel had been conclusively defeated, and it was all over for the two kings who had threatened Ahaz.

Soon after Shalmaneser V replaced Tiglath-pileser III in 727 B.C., King Hoshea of Israel committed political suicide by rebelling against Assyria. The Assyrians took the capital city of Samaria in 722 B.C. and deported thousands of Israelites to Mesopotamia and Media, where they were eventually absorbed into the local populations and lost their identity (see Isa. 7:8—within 65 years Ephraim would no longer even be a people). God had predicted what would happen to the enemies of Judah, but His point to Ahaz was that this would happen anyway, without any need to rely on Assyria.

`Think, if you were living in the northern kingdom while all this was happening, how easy it would be to lose faith. What can we do, now, today, to learn to keep our faith intact, so that when tomorrow’s calamities come, we can stay firm? See 1 Pet. 1:13–25.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In [the] hope of a sure inheritance in the earth made new, the early Christians rejoiced, even in times of severe trial and affliction. “Ye greatly rejoice,” Peter wrote, “though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations: that the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ.” . . .

The apostle’s words were written for the instruction of believers in every age, and they have a special significance for those who live at the time when “the end of all things is at hand.” His exhortations and warnings, and his words of faith and courage, are needed by every soul who would maintain his faith “steadfast unto the end.” Hebrews 3:14.

The apostle sought to teach the believers how important it is to keep the mind from wandering to forbidden themes or from spending its energies on trifling subjects. Those who would not fall a prey to Satan’s devices, must guard well the avenues of the soul; they must avoid reading, seeing, or hearing that which will suggest impure thoughts. The mind must not be left to dwell at random upon every subject that the enemy of souls may suggest. The heart must be faithfully sentineled, or evils without will awaken evils within, and the soul will wander in darkness.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 517, 518.

“This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith,” [1 John 5:4.] It is faith that enables us to look beyond the present, with its burdens and cares, to the great hereafter, where all that now perplexes us shall be made plain. Faith sees Jesus standing as our Mediator at the right hand of God. Faith beholds the mansions that Christ has gone to prepare for those who love Him. Faith sees the robe and crown prepared for the overcomer, and hears the song of the redeemed. . . .

Faith is not feeling. “Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” [Hebrews 11:1.] True faith is in no sense allied to presumption. Only he who has true faith is secure against presumption, for presumption is Satan’s counterfeit of faith.

Faith claims God’s promises and brings forth fruit in obedience. . . . Genuine faith has its foundation in the promises and provisions of the Scriptures.—_Gospel Workers_, pp. 259, 260.

Take the word of Christ as your assurance. Has He not invited you to come unto Him? Never allow yourself to talk in a hopeless, discouraged way. If you do you will lose much. By looking at appearances and complaining when difficulties and pressure come, you give evidence of a sickly, enfeebled faith. Talk and act as if your faith was invincible. The Lord is rich in resources; He owns the world. Look heavenward in faith. Look to Him who has light and power and efficiency.

There is in genuine faith a buoyancy, a steadfastness of principle, and a fixedness of purpose that neither time nor toil can weaken.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 146, 147.