---
title:  First, We Read, Then We Understand
date:   28/12/2019
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: 

Luke 24:25–27; Daniel 7:6; Numbers 14:34; Ezekiel 4:5, 6; Daniel 9:23.

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p> 
> “So Philip ran toward the chariot [cart with two wheels]. He heard the man reading from Isaiah, the prophet [special messenger from God]. Philip asked, ‘Do you understand what you are reading?’ ” (Acts 8:30, ICB).

**THIS QUARTER**, we study the book of Daniel. We are Adventists. Our church started because of this book. When we read Daniel, we must remember some important rules. These rules will help guide us in our study:

(1) We must remember always that the book of Daniel is about Jesus. The whole Bible is about Him too.

(2) We must pay careful attention to the outline that Daniel uses to write his book. How does Daniel arrange, or put in order, his ideas? What comes first? What ideas come next? This outline is important. The outline helps us understand the meaning of the book.

(3) We need to understand why Daniel writes his prophecies. Prophecies are special messages from God. 

(4) We must understand something important about Daniel’s time prophecies. Time prophecies are God’s special messages about time. They show us things that will happen in the future. Time prophecies also tell us when these things will happen. Daniel’s prophecies tell us about the many things that will happen hundreds and thousands of years in the future.

(5) We must remember that the book of Daniel does not only tell us information about the future. Daniel’s messages have important truth for our lives today too.

_We must always remember that the book of Daniel is about Jesus._