src/en/2020-01-er/01/02.md, before:

---
title:  The Book Of Daniel Shows Us Jesus 
date:   29/12/2019
---

`How does the Bible show us Jesus? For the answer, read Luke 24:25–27; John 5:39; and 2 Corinthians 1:19, 20.`

The Bible is all about Jesus. We see this truth everywhere in the book of Daniel. Chapter 1 shows us Daniel’s experience. Daniel’s experience is the same as Jesus’ experience in many ways. Jesus leaves heaven to live on this earth. He fights against the powers of darkness. In the same way, Daniel is taken from his home to Babylon. In Babylon, Daniel stands against evil. Also, God gives Daniel and his friends wisdom to live holy lives. Jesus shows this same wisdom in His life too. Chapter 2 shows us a stone. This stone is a word picture for end-time truth. The stone shows us that Jesus’ kingdom will replace all the kingdoms on earth. Chapter 3 shows us Jesus in a hot oven filled with fire. Jesus is in the oven with His loyal servants. Chapter 4 shows us that God removes King Nebuchadnezzar from his kingdom for a time. God wants the king to understand that the “ ‘Most High God rules [controls] your kingdom’ ” (Daniel 4:26, ERV). The words “ ‘Most High God rules [controls]’ ” help us remember that God the Father gives Jesus power and the kingdom in Daniel 7.

Chapter 5 shows us the end of King Belshazzar and the kingdom of Babylon. The Persians beat the Babylonians on the night that King Belshazzar throws a wild party. Babylon’s end shows us the future. This story shows us that Jesus and His angels will beat Satan and end-time Babylon. Chapter 6 shows us the evil leaders who plan to destroy Daniel. The evil leaders lie about Daniel. Their lies help us remember the lies that the religious leaders say against Jesus. Also, King Darius tries to save Daniel. But the king does not succeed. In the same way, Pilate tries to save Jesus from death (Matthew 27:17–24). But Pilate fails too.

Chapter 7 shows us that Jesus is the Son of Man (Daniel 7:13, NIrV). God gives Jesus, the Son of Man, the kingdom. Then Jesus is King over His people. Chapter 8 shows us that Jesus is our Holy Leader. He works in the temple in heaven. Chapter 9 shows Jesus as the Lamb that was killed. His death makes the Agreement between God and His people strong again. Chapters 10–12 show us Jesus as Michael. Michael is a Captain. He fights against evil. He saves God’s people from death. So, the book of Daniel is all about Jesus. Every chapter shows us Jesus in some way.

_Michael is a Captain. He fights against evil. He saves God’s people from death._

Commit message:

Update on en/2020-01-er/ Adding NOTE clarifying that it is the Easy reading version.

src/en/2020-01-er/01/02.md, after:

---
title:  The Book Of Daniel Shows Us Jesus 
date:   29/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`How does the Bible show us Jesus? For the answer, read Luke 24:25–27; John 5:39; and 2 Corinthians 1:19, 20.`

The Bible is all about Jesus. We see this truth everywhere in the book of Daniel. Chapter 1 shows us Daniel’s experience. Daniel’s experience is the same as Jesus’ experience in many ways. Jesus leaves heaven to live on this earth. He fights against the powers of darkness. In the same way, Daniel is taken from his home to Babylon. In Babylon, Daniel stands against evil. Also, God gives Daniel and his friends wisdom to live holy lives. Jesus shows this same wisdom in His life too. Chapter 2 shows us a stone. This stone is a word picture for end-time truth. The stone shows us that Jesus’ kingdom will replace all the kingdoms on earth. Chapter 3 shows us Jesus in a hot oven filled with fire. Jesus is in the oven with His loyal servants. Chapter 4 shows us that God removes King Nebuchadnezzar from his kingdom for a time. God wants the king to understand that the “ ‘Most High God rules [controls] your kingdom’ ” (Daniel 4:26, ERV). The words “ ‘Most High God rules [controls]’ ” help us remember that God the Father gives Jesus power and the kingdom in Daniel 7.

Chapter 5 shows us the end of King Belshazzar and the kingdom of Babylon. The Persians beat the Babylonians on the night that King Belshazzar throws a wild party. Babylon’s end shows us the future. This story shows us that Jesus and His angels will beat Satan and end-time Babylon. Chapter 6 shows us the evil leaders who plan to destroy Daniel. The evil leaders lie about Daniel. Their lies help us remember the lies that the religious leaders say against Jesus. Also, King Darius tries to save Daniel. But the king does not succeed. In the same way, Pilate tries to save Jesus from death (Matthew 27:17–24). But Pilate fails too.

Chapter 7 shows us that Jesus is the Son of Man (Daniel 7:13, NIrV). God gives Jesus, the Son of Man, the kingdom. Then Jesus is King over His people. Chapter 8 shows us that Jesus is our Holy Leader. He works in the temple in heaven. Chapter 9 shows Jesus as the Lamb that was killed. His death makes the Agreement between God and His people strong again. Chapters 10–12 show us Jesus as Michael. Michael is a Captain. He fights against evil. He saves God’s people from death. So, the book of Daniel is all about Jesus. Every chapter shows us Jesus in some way.

_Michael is a Captain. He fights against evil. He saves God’s people from death._
