src/en/2020-01-er/01/03.md, before:

---
title:  The Parts Of The Book Of Daniel
date:   30/12/2019
---

Daniel wrote some parts of his book in the Hebrew language. He wrote other parts in the Aramaic language. Chapters 2–7 are written in Aramaic. These chapters show us a special pattern. The pattern helps us understand the message of chapters 2–7. It also helps us understand the message of the whole book. Let us look at the pattern:

    A. Nebuchadnezzar’s dream about four kingdoms (Daniel 2)
        B. God saves Daniel’s friends from the hot oven filled with fire (Daniel 3)
            C.	God judges King Nebuchadnezzar (Daniel 4)
            C'.	God judges King Belshazzar (Daniel 5)
        B'.	God saves Daniel from the lions’ den (Daniel 6)
    A'.	Daniel’s dream about four kingdoms (Daniel 7)

This pattern helps us see the most important idea in Daniel 2–7: God controls the earth.

What is one of the best ways for you to communicate your message to people? First, make your idea clear. Then say it again. Let us look at an example of this plan in the Bible. In Genesis 41:1–7, God gives the King of Egypt two dreams about Egypt’s near future. In the 1st dream, seven skinny cows eat up seven fat cows. In the 2nd dream, seven sick plants eat up seven healthy plants. Both dreams show the same message. Egypt will have seven years of good crops. Then there will be seven years of very little food.

God uses this same plan in the book of Daniel too. Daniel shows us four prophecies, or time messages. God gives us the same message in each prophecy. Each prophecy is a little different. But all four prophecies show us the same time in history. We can see this pattern in the chart below. 

| |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|
| Daniel 2 | Daniel 7 | Daniel 8, 9 | Daniel 10–12 |
| Babylon | Babylon |  | |
| Media-Persia | Media-Persia | Media-Persia | Media-Persia
| Greece | Greece | Greece | Greece |
| Rome | Rome | Rome | Rome |
| God sets up His kingdom | God’s people judge the evil dead during the 1,000 years |  God cleans sin from the temple in heaven | Michael stands up |

*In the 1st dream, seven skinny cows eat up seven fat cows.*

Commit message:

Update on en/2020-01-er/ Adding NOTE clarifying that it is the Easy reading version.

src/en/2020-01-er/01/03.md, after:

---
title:  The Parts Of The Book Of Daniel
date:   30/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Daniel wrote some parts of his book in the Hebrew language. He wrote other parts in the Aramaic language. Chapters 2–7 are written in Aramaic. These chapters show us a special pattern. The pattern helps us understand the message of chapters 2–7. It also helps us understand the message of the whole book. Let us look at the pattern:

    A. Nebuchadnezzar’s dream about four kingdoms (Daniel 2)
        B. God saves Daniel’s friends from the hot oven filled with fire (Daniel 3)
            C.	God judges King Nebuchadnezzar (Daniel 4)
            C'.	God judges King Belshazzar (Daniel 5)
        B'.	God saves Daniel from the lions’ den (Daniel 6)
    A'.	Daniel’s dream about four kingdoms (Daniel 7)

This pattern helps us see the most important idea in Daniel 2–7: God controls the earth.

What is one of the best ways for you to communicate your message to people? First, make your idea clear. Then say it again. Let us look at an example of this plan in the Bible. In Genesis 41:1–7, God gives the King of Egypt two dreams about Egypt’s near future. In the 1st dream, seven skinny cows eat up seven fat cows. In the 2nd dream, seven sick plants eat up seven healthy plants. Both dreams show the same message. Egypt will have seven years of good crops. Then there will be seven years of very little food.

God uses this same plan in the book of Daniel too. Daniel shows us four prophecies, or time messages. God gives us the same message in each prophecy. Each prophecy is a little different. But all four prophecies show us the same time in history. We can see this pattern in the chart below. 

| |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|
| Daniel 2 | Daniel 7 | Daniel 8, 9 | Daniel 10–12 |
| Babylon | Babylon |  | |
| Media-Persia | Media-Persia | Media-Persia | Media-Persia
| Greece | Greece | Greece | Greece |
| Rome | Rome | Rome | Rome |
| God sets up His kingdom | God’s people judge the evil dead during the 1,000 years |  God cleans sin from the temple in heaven | Michael stands up |

*In the 1st dream, seven skinny cows eat up seven fat cows.*
