---
title:  End-Time Messages In Daniel
date:   31/12/2019
---

In the book of Daniel, we read about prophecies, or special messages about time. These prophecies show us things that will happen in the future. Daniel’s prophecies are different from most prophecies in the Old Testament. Daniel’s prophecies show us things that will happen in the end times. But most Old Testament prophecies are messages from God to His people. They do not show the things that will happen in the end times. It is important to understand how end-time prophecy is different from other prophecy. 

End-time prophecy has some special parts that regular prophecies do not have. We will name the parts below:

**Visions and dreams**. In end-time prophecy, God uses dreams to communicate His message to His messenger. In regular prophecy, God sends His word to His messenger. “The Word of [from] the Lord” (ERV) is written about 1600 times in the writings of the Old Testament prophets. God’s word can include visions or dreams. 

**Word pictures**. In regular prophecy, we see very few examples of word pictures. The word pictures in regular prophecies are examples of things or people we see every day. But in end-time prophecy, God shows us word pictures that have very deep meaning. Some examples include monsters with wings or horns or strange animals that mix two different animals.

**God’s special knowledge and power**. Regular prophecies often depend on choices that Israel will make. But end-time prophecies are different. They always will happen. In end-time prophecies, God shows the kingdoms that will control the earth from Daniel’s day to the end of time. End-time prophecy does not depend on human choices. Whatever we choose to do, end-time prophecy will happen just as God says it will. 

`Read Jonah 3:3–10; Hosea 3:4, 5; Amos 8:11; and Zechariah 9:1. Are these regular prophecies? Or are they end-time prophecies? Explain. What about Daniel 7:6?`

It helps us to know why regular prophecy is different from end-time prophecy: (1) We learn that God uses many different ways to communicate His truth (Hebrews 1:1). (2) Information about prophecy helps us understand the Bible better. Then we will see the Bible’s beauty more clearly. (3) This knowledge helps us to understand Bible prophecy correctly. Then we can explain it to other people (2 Timothy 2:15).

*When we understand Bible prophecy, we can explain it to other people.*