---
title:  The Year-Day Rule
date:   01/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

What is the best way to understand Daniel’s prophecies, or special time messages? We believe the prophecies in Daniel show history from Daniel’s day to the end times. But not everyone agrees. How do they explain the prophecies? (1) Some people think that the prophecies in Daniel announce things that happened already. So, they put all the prophecies in the past. (2) Some people believe that these same prophecies show only the things that will happen in the future. (3) There also are some people who believe that the time prophecies are just word pictures. They say that these word pictures show us spiritual truths only. But they do not believe the prophecies show us anything about history or the future. As we said, we believe the prophecies in Daniel show history from Daniel’s day to the end time. The first Adventists also believed that Daniel’s prophecies showed history from Daniel’s day to the end times. Ellen G. White believed this truth too. 

We will study the time prophecies in Daniel chapters 2, 7, 8, and 11. We will see that each chapter shows us history from Daniel’s day to the end times. But each chapter shows us a different view and gives us new information. 

`Study the year-day rule in Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:5, 6. How much time does a “day” equal in time prophecy?`

The year-day rule is an important rule to follow. Use this rule for the time messages in the book of Daniel. So, a day in a time message equals one real year. Let us try out this rule with an example from Daniel. If we use this rule, the prophecy about the 2,300 evenings and mornings equals 2,300 years (Daniel 8:14). In the same way, the prophecy about the 70 weeks is 490 years (Daniel 9:24–27). 

The year-day rule is correct for three important reasons. (1) Daniel’s dreams are word pictures. So, the times in his dreams must be word pictures too. (2) The dreams show things that happen from Daniel’s day to the end of time. So, time in these messages should match the things that happen. (3) Daniel gives proof that the year-day rule is correct. A clear example comes from the 70-week prophecy. It starts from the days of King Artaxerxes and ends when Jesus comes as Savior. So, we see the best way to understand time messages is to use the year-day rule.

*The year-day rule is important. It shows us that a day in a time message equals one real year.*