---
title:  Life Lessons From Daniel For Our Day
date:   02/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Daniel wrote his book more than 2,500 years ago. But his book has important truth for God’s people today. We now look at three lessons Daniel can teach us.

**God is in control of our lives**. Even when things go wrong, God is in control. He works in our lives to do what is best. Daniel’s experience in Babylon is much the same as Joseph’s experience in Egypt and Esther’s in Persia. These three young people lived in strange lands. The people there did not honor God. Daniel, Joseph, and Esther fought hard against the ways of life that went against God. Do you think that some people in these lands thought Daniel, Joseph, and Esther were weak and that God was not with them? Of course! But the Lord made Daniel, Joseph, and Esther strong. Then He used them in powerful ways. Do you have troubles? Are you suffering? Look back to the things that God did for Daniel, Joseph, and Esther. Their stories will help you see that the Lord is with you in hard times. He will not forget you. He will never leave you alone.

**God controls history**. At times, we feel upset by all the evil we see in life. But the message from the book of Daniel is clear. God is in control. Every chapter in Daniel shows us this truth. Ellen G. White says, “History books try to make us believe that countries and kingdoms depend on man’s power to grow. History books want you to believe that things happen on earth because of human power and wishes. But the Bible shows us the truth. The Bible shows us that God works out His plan. God is patient and silent as He works in humans to make His plan happen.”—Education, page 173, adapted. 

**God provides an example for His end-time people**. Daniel and his friends are examples. They show us how to be loyal to God when people around us do not obey Him. At times, we may feel that we need to give up the truth to be a success. But Daniel and his friends show us to trust in God’s law. They encourage us to stay strong when people attack us because of our faith. At the same time, Daniel shows us that we can make life better for people in our communities. We do not need to give up the truth.

`Read Daniel 9:23; Daniel 10:11, 12; and Matthew 10:29–31. What do these verses tell us about how much God cares about our troubles and suffering?`

*Daniel’s story will help you see that the Lord is with you in hard times.*