---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/03/2019
---

Before the full moral collapse of Babylon, a voice from heaven urges God’s people still in Babylon to “ ‘Come out of her, my people’ ” (Rev. 18:4). There are many worshipers of God who are still in Babylon for various reasons. God uses His end-time church to call these people out from this apostate religious system and not to participate in its sins. They must come out of it in order to escape its fate. God does not want anyone to perish (2 Pet. 3:9). Revelation 19:1–10 shows that many God-fearing people in Babylon will respond to the call. Think, then, about the tremendous responsibility that rests upon us as God’s remnant church. What should this responsibility tell us about our need of God’s truth in our hearts and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in our lives?

**Discussion Questions**:

`As Revelation 18:4 shows, there are many God-fearing people in Babylon whom God calls “ ‘my people.’ ” Reflect on the following statement: “This message must be given, but while it must be given, we should be careful not to thrust and crowd and condemn those who have not the light that we have. We should not go out of our way to make hard thrusts at the Catholics. Among the Catholics there are many who are most conscientious Christians, and who walk in all the light that shines upon them, and God will work in their behalf. Those who have had great privileges and opportunities, and who have failed to improve their physical, mental, and moral powers, . . . are in greater danger and in greater condemnation before God than those who are in error upon doctrinal points, yet who seek to live to do good to others.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 575. What should this thought tell us about how to treat others?`

`Revelation 17 describes a harlot sitting on a scarlet beast. While the woman in chapter 12 symbolizes God’s faithful church, the one in chapter 17 refers to an apostate church seducing the world away from God. In your view, what are the similarities and differences between them? More important, what can we learn from this comparison?`

`The texts this week portray a very dismal state of the religious and political world during the final stages before Christ’s victorious return. What should this tell us about why it’s so important right now that we stay faithful, true, and pure to the message that God has given us? Read Revelation 16:15, an appeal for faithfulness amid the depiction of worldwide apostasy. How can we apply this warning to ourselves right now?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Maranatha_, “The Devil’s Strategy Against Sabbathkeepers,” p. 163;

_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, “Elijah Reproves Ahab,” pp. 274–278.