---
title:  Weak In Faith
date:   24/12/2017
---

Romans 14:1-3 deal with the church's ruling about eating meats that had been offered to statues. The Jerusalem Group made big decisions for the church at the time. The Group said that non-Jewish believers should not eat foods offered to statues (Acts 15). But there was always the chance that meats sold in public markets came from animals offered to a god (read 1 Corinthians 10:25). Some Christians did not care about that possibility at all. But other Christians cared. So, what would happen if there were the smallest chance that meat had been offered to gods? Then these Christians could choose to eat vegetables instead.

Their reasons for not eating meat had nothing to do with being healthy. Paul does not hint in these verses that God put an end to the food laws between clean and unclean meats. That is not the topic here at all. So, we cannot take Romans 14:2 to mean that any animal can be eaten. Other New Testament verses support this idea that unclean meats are still unclean and must not be eaten.

So, what does Paul mean in these verses by saying to “receive [accept]” those whose faith is weak? He means to accept those persons fully as church members. Do not argue with them. They should be allowed to have their own ideas.

`What important rule does Romans 14:1–3 teach us?`

It is important to understand that in Romans 14:3 Paul is not pointing out the faults of people “whose faith is weak” (Romans 14:1, NIrV). Notice that Paul does not give these people advice about how to become strong either. Why? Because “God has accepted them” (Romans 14:3, NIrV).

`How does Romans 14:4 explain Romans 14:1–3?`

We need to remember the rules we studied today. We should not judge what is in someone’s heart. (Not that we could do that anyway.) But there are times when we need to judge if a person’s actions are wrong or right, yes? Or must we say and do nothing when something bad happens? Isaiah 56:10 says that “the leaders who are to guard the people” are the same as as dogs who  “ ‘[do not] know how to bark’ ” (ICB).

`How do we know when to “bark”—or say something—and when to stay silent? How do we avoid going too far in either one of these two things?`
