---
title:  Standing In God's Courtroom
date:   25/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 14:10. As this verse shows us, why do we need to be careful about how we view others?`

We often view others unkindly. We almost always scold them for doing the same things we do ourselves. But the wrong thing we do does not seem so bad to us as when others do the same thing. We might believe our own lies about ourselves. But we do not fool God. Jesus warns us: “ ‘When you say what is wrong in others, your words will be used to say what is wrong in you. Why do you look at the small piece of wood in your brother’s  eye, and do not see the big piece of wood in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, “Let me take that small piece of wood out of your eye,” when there is a big piece of wood in your own eye?’ ” (Matthew 7:2–4, NLV).

`Paul points to Isaiah 45:23 in Romans 14:11. What does this Old Testament verse mean? `

The verse from Isaiah agrees with the idea that *everyone* must appear before God our Judge. The words “every knee” and “every tongue” (NLV) hint at the teaching that every per-son must answer to God for his or her own life and actions (Romans 14:12). No one can answer for another person.

`Think about all we have read. What does Paul mean in Romans 14:14?`

Paul is talking again about foods offered to statues. Again, the problem here is not about foods that are wrong to eat. Paul is saying that there is nothing wrong in eating foods that were offered to the statues of gods. After all, what are these statues anyway? They are nothing (read 1 Corinthians 8:4). So, who cares if the food was once offered to a stone carving of a frog or a bull made of wood?

At the same time, a person should not be forced to go against his or her beliefs. This fact is something that the “strong” believers did not seem to understand. They hated the carefulness of the “weak” believers. So, the strong believers did things that made the weaker believers “trip and fall" in their walks with God.
