---
title:  We Must Not Cause People To Sin
date:   26/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 14:15–23 (read also 1 Corinthians 8:12, 13). What is the most important idea found in these verses in Romans? What important rule can we take from them that we can use in all parts of our lives?`

In Romans 14:17–20, Paul gives us the correct way of looking at the different parts of the Christian life. Yes, diet is important. But Christians should not quarrel about another person’s choice to eat vegetables instead of meats that had been offered to statues. Instead, Christians should think about “being right with God” and the “peace and joy given by the Holy Spirit” (Romans 14:17, NLV). How might we use this idea to help answer questions about diet in our church today? The health message and our teachings about diet are gifts. But not everyone agrees exactly about the best way to follow that message. So, we need to respect everyone’s differences.

`Paul adds something *very* interesting in the middle of all this talk about how we need to let people follow their own ideas in somethings. He says, “Your beliefs about these things should be kept [held in] secret between you and God” (Romans 14:22, ICB). What exactly is Paul warning us against here? How does this verse help us not to go too far in trying to change other people?`

Have you heard someone say, “It is no one’s business what I eat or what I wear or what kind of fun I enjoy”? Is that true? Nobody lives separate from others. What we do and say and even what we eat has power to change others for good or for bad. It is not hard to see how. Think about someone who looks up to you. What if that person sees you doing something wrong? Your example could cause him or her to do that same thing. We fool ourselves if we think that what we do or say is not that important. To say that you did not force that person to do anything is no excuse. As Christians, we have duties to each other. What if our example leads someone away from God? Then we are to blame

`Would you feel comfortable with having other people follow your example in all parts of their lives? What does your answer say about how you are living your?`
