---
title:  Honoring Special Days
date:   27/12/2017
---

So far, Paul talks about how we must not point out faults in other people whose views are different from our views. Paul also warns against being a bad example. Next, in Romans 14:4–10, Paul talks about special days that some people want to honor and other people do not.

`Read Romans 14:4–10. How should we understand what Paul says in these verses? Does he say anything about the fourth commandment? Why not?`

Which days is Paul talking about? Was there a quarrel in the church about which days to honor? It seems so. We get a hint of what the quarrel was about in Galatians 4:9, 10. Here, Paul scolds the Galatian Christians for continuing to “follow teachings about special days, months, seasons, and years” (ICB). Some Jewish Christians insisted that these days should be honored. These Jewish Christians were false teachers. They told the non-Jewish Christians in Galatia that they needed to be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ is cut off. These false teachers also wanted the Galatians to follow other rules from the law of Moses. Paul feared that these false teachings and the quarrels about the feast days could harm the church at Rome. Or maybe the real problem in Rome over the feast days was that Jewish Christians had a hard time believing they no longer needed to honor these days. So, maybe that is why Paul says: *Do as you please about the feast days. The important thing to remember is not to point out faults in people whose ideas about the days are different from yours*. It seems that some Christians wanted to make sure they were doing everything right. So, they decided to honor one or more of the feast days. Paul said to let these Christians honor these feast days if they felt they must.

Also, there is no reason to believe that Romans 14:5 is talking about the seventh-day Sabbath. All quarter we have studied how Paul put a lot of importance on obeying the law. So, these verses in Romans 14 cannot be used to say that the seventh-day Sabbath no longer needs to be obeyed. Peter warned against people who would twist Paul’s writings to mean things Paul never meant (2 Peter 3:16).

`How can you experience more fully what the Lord meant for the Sabbath to be?`
