---
title:  Final Words
date:   28/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 15:1–3. What important Christian truth do these verses teach us?`

`How do these verses show us what it means to be a follower of Jesus? What other verses in the Bible teach this same idea? Most important, how can you live this truth in your life?`

`Read the ending of Paul’s letter. Pay close attention to Romans 15:5, 6, 13, 33. What  words does Paul use at the end of his letter?`

Romans 15:5 says, “the God Who helps you not to give up and gives you strength” (NLV). This wording points us to how God helps His children not to quit. This wording comes from the Greek word *hupomone*. *Hupomone* means “being patient” and “long lasting.” The word for “hope” (Romans 15:4) may be written as “giving hope to” or “encouragement.” The God of encouragement is the God who encourages us. The God of hope is the God who gives hope to humans. The God of peace is the God who gives us peace.  We will find peace in God.

`Paul makes many personal greetings. Then he brings his letter to a close in Romans 15:25–27. How does he end it?`

Paul ends his letter in praise to God. All Christians can safely trust in God. We can trust that God has accepted us as His children. We can trust that by faith God makes us right with Himself. We can trust that His Holy Spirit leads us.

We know that the Lord led Paul to write this letter in answer to a special problem at a special time. But we do not know everything the Lord showed to Paul about the future. Paul knew “many people [would] turn away from God” (2 Thessalonians 2:3, NLV). But exactly how much more did Paul know? The Bible does not say. So, we do not know if Paul had any idea about the important part his writings would have in the last days. But in the end, the most important thing is that the truth in Romans led to the start of the Protestant churches. Paul’s writings continue to give us reasons for faith and hope on an earth filled with people who "follow the beast" (Revelation 13:3, NIrV).
