---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   29/12/2017
---

“I saw that God’s people would be in danger if they looked to us [Brother and Sister White] to guide them. Instead, God’s people should look to Him.  God’s people must not think that they should come to us with their problems and heavy loads to receive our advice. Instead, God invites His people to come to Him when they are tired and weighed down by heavy loads. Jesus is their kind and loving Savior. He will help them. . . . Many Christians come to us with the questions: ‘Shall I do this thing?’ ‘Shall I take part in that business plan?’ ‘Shall I wear this clothing or that clothing?’ I answer them: You say you are followers of Jesus. Then study your Bibles. Read carefully about the life of our dear Savior when He lived on the earth. Copy His life. Then you will not wander away from the path you should walk in. We refuse to tell anyone what they should do or not do. What would happen if we told you what to do? Then you would look to us to guide you. Instead, go to Jesus for yourselves.”—Ellen G. White, *Testimonies [Messages] for the Church*, volume 2, pages 118, 119, adapted.

“We must not wait for people to tell us what to do. We must not depend on humans for advice. The Lord will teach us our duty. . . . So, how will you know what to do? First, decide in your heart that you will do nothing that will make God unhappy. Next, tell God what you need and ask for His help. Then you will know exactly what to do.”—Ellen G. White, *The Desire of Ages*, page 668, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

Think about some of the ideas we studied this week. Then answer the questions below:

`A. How do we stay loyal to our beliefs? At the same time, how do we stay loyal to the Bible without pretending we have all the answers?`

`B. How do we stay loyal to what we know is right without trying to force others to believe the way we do? At the same time, how do we help people who are making mistakes? When should we say something to them? And when should we say nothing to them at all?`

`C. How do we stay free in the Lord? At the same time, why must we remember that we must be good examples to everyone who looks up to us and also to the people around us?`
