---
title:  The Human Condition
date:   14/10/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23, NKJV).

**Introduction**: Ps. 51:5

**Suffering From My Condition**

It was a cold winter night as I drove from college to my girlfriend’s family’s house for New Year’s Eve. It was the first time I had taken a class during that session. I was pursuing a mechanical engineering degree and was only twelve credits away from graduation. When I was young, my elementary school teacher had expressed to my parents during a parent-teacher conference, “Ricky will never succeed in the field of mathematics.” I kind of laughed a little, thinking back to the whole situation and felt pretty good about what I had been able to accomplish.

**We can’t treat it on our own, nor is it something from which we can hide.**

As I was driving I became short of breath, and I thought, Oh no, not again. From birth I had been plagued with asthma. Some days were better than others, but with each passing year I could not seem to grow out of it. The closer I got to the house, the more I lost control of my breathing. I decided to turn around and head to the emergency room. When I reached the hospital, I lost complete control of my breathing, and my emergency medication was not working.

The ER personnel immediately rushed me in and started treatment. Nothing seemed to work, and I began to get worried. The doctors were concerned; they didn’t know what to do. My mother had arrived and was telling me to hold on. For the first time in my life I felt I couldn’t fight anymore. I told God that I was giving up, and if He was going to help, now would be the time. This condition had control of my whole life, and at that moment I knew I couldn’t fight it alone. If God didn’t intervene, I would die.

My mother reached over and handed me a bottle of water. I took a sip, and two minutes later I coughed. I couldn’t believe it. I inhaled and exhaled, and to my surprise, I could breathe. The doctors came rushing into the room, astonished, not believing what they were seeing.

We have all been born with the condition of sin. It binds our spirits, invades our thoughts, and cripples our walk. The psalmist David writes, “Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me” (Ps. 51:5, NIV). The state of man is such that it requires someone mighty to intervene. We can’t treat it on our own, nor is it something from which we can hide. For us, it takes a stance of surrender, a moment of knowing that we cannot bear it alone, and a realization that if God doesn’t intervene now, we will die. The good news is that God is standing there ready to accept you as you are and give you a brand-new life. Will you surrender your life today?

_Ricky D. Venters Jr., Bel Air, Maryland, USA_