---
title:  All Have Sinned, All Can Be Righteous
date:   15/10/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 3:10–18; 5:12–21; 1 Cor. 10:13; 1 Tim. 1:15

**Who Has Sinned?** (Rom. 3:23)
The plague of sin is so far-reaching that no individual is clear from its grasp. Everyone who has been born of a woman has been impacted by the temptation of sin or the result that follows. David the psalmist declares, “Behold, I was shaped in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me” (Ps. 51:5, KJ21). It’s hard to imagine, but the influence of sin is present even at the embryonic stage of our lives. No one is excluded from sin. “For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23). “There is none righteous, no, not one” (verse 10, NKJV). All who declare themselves born righteous must recognize that our DNA reveals traits at birth of our selfish nature. We are inherently sinful due to our forefathers and generations of sin. Our first parents made a crucial error that caused a trickle-down effect to our day. Generation after generation has been touched by the effects of their sin.

**We must have faith in His promise that He will forgive us and keep us in times of temptation.**

“Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned” (Rom. 5:12, WBT).

**Sin Identified and Defined** (1 John 3:4)

Romans 7:12–14 helps us to see clearly what we are up against concerning sin. We serve a God who endeavors to be fair in His judgments. He gives us an opportunity to see clearly the dividing lines. If we know the law of God and recognize His will for us and walk contrary to His ways, we fall short of His glory. His law is not only God’s character manifested it is also the guardrail for our salvation. We know the error of our ways if we know the law. “Whoever commits sin also commits lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. (1 John 3:4 NKJV).

The gospel has been identified as the good news, and our current situation of sin is not a permanent one. Though we were conceived, shaped, and born in this condition, God offers the antidote for each one of us to obtain salvation. It is important to understand that salvation is not attained through works that we may boast and think it is our doing, but it is through faith in Jesus Christ. It is Christ Jesus who came into the world to save sinners, and the writer, Paul, considers himself the chief of sinners. If Paul considers himself the chief of sinners, who then can be saved? And how? In Matthew 19:25, the disciples asked this same question. Who can be saved? Everyone! How can we be saved? “For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God” (Eph. 2:8, NIV).

**Sola Fide** (Eph. 2:8)

Sola fide is Latin for “by faith alone.” The reformer Martin Luther, in his quest to make a distinction between the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestant movement, highlighted the aspect of justification by faith. Many would argue that our works play an integral part in our salvation. Our salvation is due to the sacrifice of Jesus for humankind. One cannot work to achieve what Jesus did on the cross for us, but our appreciation for the sacrifice He completed for us prompts us to live our lives as a manifestation of love toward Him. We are justified through faith alone. Hebrews 11:1–12 gives us a picture of the individuals in the Word of God who have attained salvation through faith. Their works followed them, according to Scripture, but the message helps one to understand that faith alone is the key. The doctrine of sola fide proposes that faith in Christ is sufficient for sinners to be accepted by God; counted among His people; and equipped with the motives of trust, gratitude, and love toward God—from which good works are to be done.

**Can All Be Righteous?**

All who accept Christ as their personal Savior have the opportunity to be redeemed. We will never be righteous through our merits. Our righteousness is merited through the sacrifice Jesus fulfilled on Calvary. Jesus took our place, which affords us the gift of righteousness. We are worthy through Christ’s death. “For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be the righteousness of God in him” (2 Cor. 5:21).

When we trust in Christ, He takes our sins and makes us right with God. Our sins are laid on Christ. We have faith that when we make the decision to be converted, we give up our worthlessness to Christ and trade it in for His righteousness. Jesus took the penalty of our sins, and He was and still is faithful to redeem us. We must have faith in His promise that He will forgive us and keep us in times of temptation.

All have sinned, but all can be saved.

**React**

`If every individual was born and shaped in iniquity, according to Scripture, how are we then saved?`

`Define sin. How many people have experienced sin?`

`Describe the process of how we are declared righteous.`

_Paul Graham, Bowie, Maryland, USA_
