---
title:  “What’s in it for me?”
date:   16/10/2017
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 2:4–10

Greed is in the heart of every man. Everyone seeks to obtain a reward for the deeds they have done, no matter how minimal. In Romans 3:23, Paul highlights our shortcomings when he states that “all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (NIV). Yet, throughout this book, Paul shows how God still offers a reward to those who turn to Him and repent of their sins.

**The gift is ours for the taking.**

Furthermore, “the examples in God’s word of genuine repentance and humiliation reveal a spirit of confession in which there is no excuse for sin or attempt at self-justification.”1 Paul encourages his readers to take advantage of “the riches of his kindness, forbearance and patience, not realizing that God’s kindness is intended to lead [them] to repentance” (Rom. 2:4, NIV). Then, “the humble and broken heart, subdued by genuine repentance, will appreciate something of the love of God and the cost of Calvary; and as a son confesses to a loving father, so will the truly penitent bring all his sins before God.”2 Thus there is a cost for the promised reward.

God wants us to surrender to Him. Nevertheless, “confession will not be acceptable to God without sincere repentance and reformation. There must be decided changes in the life; everything offensive to God must be put away. This will be the result of genuine sorrow for sin.”3

The Holy Spirit helps us in this quest to cut off the things that are offensive to God because “it is the Holy Spirit that convicts of sin. If the sinner responds to the quickening influence of the Spirit, he will be brought to repentance and aroused to the importance of obeying the divine requirements.”4

The gift is ours for the taking. By yielding to the transforming power of the Holy Spirit, we place ourselves on the winning track that never fails. So what’s in it for me? Everything!

**React**

`Upon what areas of your life has the Holy Spirit shed a light? Has He prompted change?`

`When was the last time you dwelt on Jesus’ sacrifice for you to the point that you fell to your knees in complete surrender? Is it time now?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 41.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>
<sup>3. Ibid., p. 39.</sup>
<sup>4. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 52.</sup>

_Gladys S. Guerrero, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_