---
title:  Know Your Condition
date:   17/10/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 2:1

Some have said that the first step to wholeness is awareness of your condition. In the first three chapters of Romans, Paul wants to hammer home the point that “all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23, NIV). All have this sickness of the soul called sin, but not all are aware of the seriousness of their condition. In chapters 1 and 2, Paul levels the playing field by making the point that both Jews and Gentiles have the same problem: sin. The reason that Paul even needed to do this was that he was writing to the church in Rome, which initially started with predominantly Jewish Christians who were later expelled from Rome by Emperor Claudius. However, after a.d. 54, when they returned, they found that the church leadership was Gentile Christians. Therefore, there were tensions coming from both sides. The Jews thought that they were superior because of their place in salvation history, and the Gentiles felt that they were in “control” now and the Jewish people had largely rejected their Messiah.

**All have this sickness of the soul called sin, but not all are aware of the seriousness of their condition.**

Paul had to confront this judgmental spirit. He says, “Therefore you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge, for in whatever you judge another you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things” (Rom. 2:1, NKJV). This judgment of someone in the church who is different from you needs to be called what it is: sin. We must confront the problems that face our nation, the church, and our own lives by recognizing that what is at the root of these problems is our sinful human condition. This is why Paul expounds upon the profound beauty of the gospel in his letter to the church in Rome, because it is as the gospel of Jesus Christ is presented that we sense our need of repentance. Morris Venden says, “We come to Christ first, and then He gives us repentance.”1 And this is why Paul goes on to say in his letter that “the goodness of God leads you to repentance” (verse 4, NKJV). The liberating power of the gospel that Jesus gives us as a gift can only come when you and I finally admit that we’re sick. Grace heals.

**React**

`What daily practice can you engage in that will help you to both be aware of your true condition and also receive the freeing power of the gospel?`

`What practical steps can the church take to heal its social, racial, cultural, or “other” divides?`

<sup>1. Morris L. Venden, 95 Theses on Righteousness by Faith (Boise, ID: Pacific Press®, 2003), p. 99.</sup>

_“CJ” Claypole S. Cousins Jr., Laurel, Maryland, USA_