---
title:  Born a Sinner but Transformed Through Faith
date:   18/10/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 1:16, 17; 3:10–18, 23

It was after the Last Supper, a crucial time, when Jesus needed His disciples’ support and prayers the most; but they fell asleep because what prevailed in their hearts at that crucial moment was their own flesh, wants, and priorities. Why? Because of their sinful nature. Jesus told Peter that he was going to deny Him three times before the rooster crowed; and Peter assured Jesus that he was not going to do that, yet the first opportunity he had to testify of His name he failed, he fell short of the glory of God because selfishness dominated Peter’s heart. By nature, we are prone to sin, it happens automatically since we were born in sin. Romans 3:10 says, “There is none righteous, no, not one” (NKJV).

**We can conquer sin—but only by accepting that we are all sinners and have been saved by the grace of God.**

God’s love for us is so abundant that He manifested it by sending His only begotten Son into the world to forgive our sins so we that might live through Him. That’s how we can glorify Him and proclaim His name—by giving up our own flesh and surrendering ourselves to the Lord just as we are so He can transform our hearts. He loves us so much that He is willing to do that every day as long as we go to Him every day and allow Him to live within us. “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life” (John 3:16). Although it is in our human nature to sin, we know that we can live through Him by faith. We know that if we devote ourselves to the Lord, He can help us overcome sin, and we can be victorious through Jesus Christ. We can conquer sin—but only by accepting that we are all sinners and have been saved by the grace of God. He gave us the gift of salvation. We just need to allow God to do His work in us every day. “Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new” (2 Cor. 5:17, NKJV).

**React**

`Am I surrendering myself every day and allowing God to live in me?`

`How can I testify of the love of God for me and not be ashamed of the gospel?`

_Leslie Acosta, Rockville, Maryland, USA_