---
title:  Who Knows Best?
date:   19/10/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 2:1–3, 17–24; 3:9–22

One of my best friends at the time was Catholic. She was so good and kind. She didn’t curse like all of the rest of us, and I distinctly remember thinking, If we are the people of the “Book” and she is Catholic—of the folks who tried to stop others from reading the “Book” for themselves, bought their way into heaven, and still do penance today—how come she is more Christian than I am?

The truth was we were both the same, except for when it came to having a relationship with Christ. Hers was stronger because she spent more time with Him. Her faith in God, not her religion, set her apart from us to be a better light.

**God knows best because He is the Agent of change who works within us all to bring about our salvation.**

So who knows best? Muslims, Jews, Christians, or Hindus? The truth is the same human condition that riddles me riddles you. Christians make mistakes, and so do Muslims. People seem to think that Jesus leveled the playing field between Jews and everyone else at the cross, but it has always been level. Before the Fall, everyone, and by everyone I mean Adam and Eve, was perfect. After the Fall, everyone came into the world sinful. After Jesus’ death and resurrection, we all now have the opportunity to be saved. As humans, we have always been in the same predicament: perfect, sinful, or saved.

So who knows best? God. God knows best because He is the Agent of change who works within us all to bring about our salvation. Religion won’t do it. Socioeconomic positioning won’t do it. Being popular or talented won’t do it. Earning several postsecondary degrees won’t do it. Being good won’t do it. Our faith in Jesus Christ alone saves us and affords us the opportunity to spend eternity with Him. Faith has always made the difference in the human experience.

**React**

`What did Jews and Gentiles have in common all those years ago? Has it changed today? Do Muslims and Christians still have the same things in common that Jews and Gentiles did?`

`Write about a time when you knew someone who didn’t profess the same religion that you did exhibited Christian principles better than you did.`

_Shari A. Loveday, Bowie, Maryland, USA_