---
title:  Hope for Our Human Nature
date:   20/10/2017
---

**Exploration**: Luke 18:13; Rom. 2:4; 3:10–18, 23

**Conclude**

Oftentimes, our plea is, “ ‘God, be merciful to me a sinner!’ ” (Luke 18:13). The truth is that we have a fallen condition, and we often are prone to sinful tendencies, but the book of Romans shows us that there is hope. The good news is that we have a Savior who offers us forgiveness and grace, even though we can do nothing in and of ourselves to deserve it. Praise God that we have such a good Father, who loves us and, despite our human condition, seeks to redeem us to our original relationship with Himself.

**Consider**

`Writing a prayer to God of your desire for renewal and a right relationship with Him.`

`Making a collage depicting the human condition before coming in contact with Jesus and a comparison collage depicting the qualities a born-again believer can experience.`

`Writing a prayer list in the note section of your mobile device of five individuals you want to pray for on a weekly basis to experience the hope of Christ.`

`Going for a walk and observing how nature has been affected by the fallen human condition and reading Revelation 21 for the hope of the restored heaven and earth.`

`Conducting an interview with someone who is willing to share of their past life of crime, prison, addictions, etc., before they had a transformed life in Christ.`

**Connect**

1. Luke 18:9–14, 35–43.
2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 159–162; The Desire of Ages, chap. 27, “ ‘Thou Canst Make Me Clean’. ”
3. Philip Yancey, What’s So Amazing About Grace? (Zondervan, 2002).

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_