---
title:  Who Is Mark?
date:   29/06/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Acts 12:12; Acts 15:36–39; Mark 1:1–8; Mark 1:9–13; Mark 1:14, 15.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “After John was put in prison, Jesus went into Galilee and told people the Good News from God. He said, ‘The right time is now here. God’s kingdom is very near. Change your hearts and lives, and believe the Good News!’ ” (Mark 1:14, 15, ERV).

Who wrote the book of Mark? The first four books in the New Testament tell us about the life of Jesus. These books do not tell us who wrote them.

From early times, people connected each of the first four books of the New Testament with a church leader or one of his friends. People connected the Book of Luke with Paul (Colossians 4:14; 2 Timothy 4:11; Philemon 1:24). People connected the Book of Mark with Peter (read 1 Peter 5:13). This information helps us to discover who wrote Mark.

Again, the writer of the Book of Mark doesn’t tell us his name. But early church leaders tell us that John Mark wrote the Book of Mark. John Mark sometimes traveled with Paul and Barnabas (Acts 13:2, 5). Later, John Mark worked with Peter (1 Peter 5:13), which is why people from early times connected the Book of Mark with Peter.

The first thing we will do this week is learn about Mark. Who is he? What does the Bible tell us? Mark failed early in life. Later, he changed and wrote a book of the Bible. We will study why Mark failed. Then we will learn how he changed and later wrote a book about Jesus’ life.