---
title:  The Man Who Failed
date:   30/06/2024
---

`Read Acts 12:12. How does the Book of Acts introduce Mark?`

Most people believe that John Mark wrote the Book of Mark. John Mark was a young man when the story in Acts 12 happened. This story happened sometime between the years a.d. 44 and a.d. 46. In Acts 12:12, we learn that Mark is the son of a wealthy woman named Mary. Mary ­supported the church with her wealth. She held prayer meeting in her home. You can read about this prayer meeting in Acts 12. Church members came to Mary’s house to pray after Herod put Peter in prison. Peter escaped from jail. Then Herod died a terrible death. John Mark doesn’t really have an important part in this story. But we first learn about him here. Later, we will read about his connection with Barnabas and Saul.

`Read Acts 13:1–5, 13. How did John Mark start working with Saul and Barnabas? What happened later on, after John started working with them?`

Acts 13 tells us about the first trip that Saul and Barnabas took together in about a.d. 46. Luke, who wrote the Book of Acts, doesn’t talk about John Mark until verse 5. John Mark is a helper or servant at that time. Luke doesn’t say anything else about John Mark until verse 13. Then Luke says that John Mark went back to Jerusalem.

Luke doesn’t tell us why John Mark goes back home. We can imagine in our minds the reason. Ellen G. White says, “Mark grew frightened. He lost his courage. For a time, he failed to give his whole heart to God’s work. Mark wasn’t used to hard times. The dangers and hard times filled his heart with fear, and he lost hope.”—The Acts of the Apostles, page 169, adapted. In short, things got too hard for John Mark. So, he wanted to go home.

`Do you sometimes feel the same as John Mark when things in life get too hard? Maybe you backed off from something or failed in your Christian walk with God because you were afraid. What did you learn from the experience?`