---
title:  Another Chance
date:   01/07/2024
---

`Why did Paul reject John Mark? Why did Barnabas give John Mark another chance? Read Acts 15:36–39 for the answers.`

Acts 15:38 tells us the reason why Paul rejected John Mark: John Mark left Paul and Barnabas. John Mark also stopped working for God. For sure, we can understand why Paul was upset. Preaching and teaching in Bible times was hard work (read 2 Corinthians 11:23–28). Paul depended on his fellow workers to help him. Together, they fought against evil angels. Paul thought that anyone who walked away from this fight should not be a part of his team.

Barnabas didn’t agree. Barnabas liked John Mark and didn’t want to leave him behind. Paul and Barnabas fought about John Mark. In the end, Paul and Barnabas ­separated because of Mark. Paul chose Silas to travel with him. Barnabas took Mark.

The Book of Acts doesn’t explain why Barnabas chose to take Mark with him. Acts 15 is the last chapter in the Book of Acts that talks about Barnabas and Mark. But this chapter is not the last place we read about Mark in the Bible.

`Read Colossians 4:10; 2 Timothy 4:11; Philemon 1:24; and 1 Peter 5:13. What do these verses tell us about Mark?`

Mark changed. In these verses, Paul tells us that Mark is a blessing to him and his work for God. Paul thinks of Mark as one of his fellow workers. Paul wants Timothy to bring Mark with him. The Book of 1 Peter tells us that Peter also had a close friendship with Mark. Paul and Peter wrote their books in the early a.d. 60s. So, they wrote 15–20 years after Paul rejected Mark, in Acts 15. Mark failed and left the work. But then he came back later because Barnabas, his cousin, believed in him.

`Think about a time when you or a friend failed. Were you or your friend given a second chance? How did that experience change you? How did your experience change the one who helped you? How did your experience improve the work you did for God?`