---
title:  The Messenger
date:   02/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 1:1–8. Who do these verses talk about, and what do these people say or do?`

These verses tell us about three people: Jesus Christ (Mark 1:1), God the Father (Mark 1:2 gives us a hint about Him), and John the Baptist. John was a messenger and preacher.

In Mark 1:2, 3, we read a quote from the Old Testament that comes from three separate Old Testament verses: Exodus 23:20; Isaiah 40:3; and Malachi 3:1. Mark blends these three verses together to show us what will happen in the story about Jesus’ life.

`Read Exodus 23:20; Isaiah 40:3; and Malachi 3:1. What is the same in each of these verses?`

Exodus 23:20 talks about an angel that God will send to lead Israel to the Promised Land. Isaiah 40:3 tells us how God will appear in the desert and the road that will be made ready for Him. Malachi 3:1 talks about a messenger who comes before the Lord. The messenger makes the way ready for the Lord to come. All three verses talk about a trip.

Isaiah 40:3 shows us the future work of John the Baptist. In the Book of Mark, the Lord Jesus is on a journey. This trip will lead him to the cross, where He will die for us.

But much more must happen before Jesus dies on the cross. In Mark 1, Jesus’ journey is starting. Mark will tell us all about it.

In Mark 1:2, 3, John the Baptist calls people to stop sinning and to come back to God (Mark 1:4). John the Baptist dressed the same as Elijah, God’s special messenger (compare with 2 Kings 1:8). In Mark 1:7, 8, John the Baptist talks about the coming One who is more powerful than he is. This Person will do more than John can do. This Person is Jesus. John says about Jesus, “ ‘I am not good enough to get down and help Him take off His shoes’ ” (Mark 1:7, NLV). This verse shows us that John understands that Jesus is more than human. Jesus is God.