---
title:  Jesus’ Baptism
date:   03/07/2024
---

`Who is at Jesus’ baptism? What happens when Jesus gets baptized? Read Mark 1:9–13 for the answers.`

John baptizes Jesus in the Jordan River. When Jesus comes out of the water, He sees the skies open. The Holy Spirit comes down on Jesus, the same as a dove. God says from heaven to Jesus, “ ‘You are my Son and I love you. I am very pleased with you’ ” (Mark 1:11, ICB).

These things help us understand that Jesus’ baptism is special. Together, these things announce the start of Jesus’ work on earth. Many of the same things that happen in this story will happen in Mark 15, when Jesus is on the cross.

Next, the Holy Spirit sends Jesus into the desert. The word “send” comes from the Greek word “_ekballô_” (Mark 1:12, ERV). Mark also uses the word “ekballô” when he talks about how Jesus commands demons to come out of people (Mark 1:34, 39). This word tells us that “send” was a push full of force. The story in Mark 1:9–13 shows us the Holy Spirit’s power in Jesus’ life.

Mark shows us Jesus as both God and man. How? Let’s review. Mark shows us that Jesus is the Christ, the Chosen One, the Savior (Mark 1:1). As God, Jesus is the Lord. John the Baptist is the messenger that announces Jesus’ coming (Mark 1:2, 3). Jesus is more powerful than John (Mark 1:7). Jesus is the Son that God loves. As we saw already, the Holy Spirit comes down from heaven and fills Jesus (Mark 1:10, 11). As a man, Jesus is baptized. Notice that John baptizes Jesus; Jesus doesn’t baptize John (Mark 1:9). Then the Spirit sends Jesus into the desert (Mark 1:12). Jesus is in the desert for 40 days. Danger is all around Jesus. Satan tries to get Jesus to sin (Mark 1:13). Finally, angels come to help Jesus (Mark 1:13).

Why does Mark show Jesus as both God and Man? Mark wants us to understand that Jesus is our Lord and Savior. He is God. At the same time, Jesus also is a human. He is both our Brother and our Example. How can we understand this amazing Bible truth? We can’t. All we can do is accept it with faith. We must believe in this Bible truth. This Bible truth shows us God’s love for the human family.

`Jesus was God. At the same time, He became a man to save us. What does this wonderful Bible truth teach us about God’s amazing love for us?`