---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   05/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Voice in the Wilderness,” pages 97–108, in _The Desire of Ages_; and “Heralds of the Gospel,” pages 166–176, in _The Acts of the Apostles_.

Did you know that the first angel in Revelation 14:6, 7 says much the same thing that Jesus says in Mark 1:15? The First Angel announces the Good News to everyone on earth in the end times. The First Angel’s Message has the same three parts that we see in Jesus’ message. The chart below compares Jesus’ message with the First Angel’s Message. Both announcements have a time message, a promise, and an invitation:

| Mark 1 (topics) | Compare with | Revelation 14 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| The time (Daniel 9) | Time message | God, our Judge, is finished (Daniel 7, 8). |
| God’s kingdom is near. | God’s promise | The Good News |
| Follow Jesus. | Invitation | Worship God. |

The First Angel’s Message announces the start of God’s work as Judge. The time message about the 2,300 days shows us that this work will start in 1844 (Daniel 8:14). God’s work as Judge gives God’s kingdom to His people (Daniel 7:22). During the end times, the First Angel invites everyone on earth to worship God and to follow Him. In Revelation 13, the evil animal powers make a false god for everyone on earth to honor, praise, and worship.

So, Jesus’ message in Mark 1 connects with the time messages in Daniel. The First Angel’s Message also connects to Daniel’s time messages at the end times.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does baptism mean? Read Romans 6:1–4 and John 3:1–8. Compare these verses with the baptism of Jesus in Mark 1:9–13. How do these verses help you understand better what baptism means?`

`Compare the Good News from Jesus in Mark 1:14, 15 with the First Angel’s Message in Revelation 14:6, 7. How do these messages help you better understand your work as a Seventh-day Adventist today?`