---
title:  Just Communicate
date:  11/08/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 14:6–17

Growing up in the faith, I have heard my fair share of sermons. Usually the best sermons I heard were preached by evangelists, or people who travel far and wide and practice their sermons and, thus, have experience preaching the good news. After a while, you can come to appreciate the truly amazing sermons where insights, connections, and layers of the gospel are revealed to you that you did not previously realize. When this happens, one might be tempted to look at the evangelist and not see the Holy Spirit at work.

This very same thing happened, in an extreme case, to Paul and Barnabas. After preaching his heart out to the Lystrians, Paul gazed out upon the audience, and his eyes made contact with one man. Paul, through the Spirit, could discern something unique about this man. This man was special—this man had faith in what Paul was preaching. I can just imagine Paul stretching out his hand and telling him, “Stand and walk.” This man, having been born crippled but now casting his faith upon Jesus, leaped into the air, healed (Acts 14:8–10).

It was at this moment that Paul’s worst fears were realized. The Lystrians rose and, attributing this miracle they had seen to Zeus and Hermes, ran to the temple of Zeus to gather the priests and offer sacrifice unto Zeus. The Lystrians were about to worship Paul and Barnabas. Can you imagine it? When I preach, one of the constant questions running through my mind is, Do they understand? So I ask periodically, “Do you understand?” I’m sure that question was also running through Paul’s mind: Do they understand?

I can imagine Paul trembling and thinking, Oh no, they didn’t get it! How can I make them understand? Then Paul tries something different. Paul rends his clothes and, pounding his chest, seems to say, “Don’t do it! I am just like you. All the same experiences that you go through, I do, too; I am hungry like you, tired like you, in pain like you, happy like you, excited like you—just like you.” This is one of the keys to soul winning. Can you relate to them? If you cannot, be honest; because even if you can’t relate, we have a Savior who can (Heb. 4:15). And that’s the good news: we have a Savior who is close, whom we can feel out (Acts 17:27).

_Arthur Ujlaki-Nagy, Bronxville, New York, USA_