---
title:  Paul’s First Missionary Journey
date:  12/08/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 13:1–12, 38, 42–49; 14:1–26

**Introduction (Acts 13:4, 5)**

Armed with the unmatchable power of the Holy Spirit and the life-changing gospel of Jesus Christ, Paul and his companions face some significant opposition while preaching the gospel, but they also experience many affirmative responses to the gospel. The goal of the first missionary journey seems to be the penetration of every part of the then known world so that people could make the choice for salvation in Jesus Christ.

Paul’s methodology was to start with the Jews first, then to proceed to the Gentiles (Acts 13:42–44). It is ironic that the Jews who were called to spread the message of salvation to every nation became envious because the Gentiles were being offered the same privileges that they thought were theirs exclusively. As a result, they rejected the gospel and opposed Paul’s message.

**How Christ Directs His Mission**

Through the Church (Acts 13:2, 4) The importance of the Holy Spirit as seen from the beginning of Acts 13:2, 4 could be underscoring the importance of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. The Holy Spirit gives the initial and the ongoing impetus to Christ’s mission.

God often directs His church by guiding those with the leadership gifts through the Holy Spirit to advance His work. Committees often fulfill this role today. Committees that are under the guidance of the Holy Spirit ensure that the gospel is proclaimed in all parts of the world in a structured and systematic manner. The committees’ task is to discern the will of God by listening to the Holy Spirit.

**The Christ-Centered Gospel Message (Acts 13:16–41)**

Paul preached on the most thrilling theme—Jesus our Savior (Acts 13:23). As his sermon (Acts 13:16–41) shows, Paul’s message was the very same apostolic gospel that had been preached by Peter some 12 or 15 years earlier.* The basic content of our proclamation does not change because the power of the proclamation is in the living Christ, not in novel ideas or fanciful opinions. This Christ-centered message has life within it to propel itself (Heb. 4:12). The response to preaching Christ was so explosive that the whole city wanted to hear this message the next Sabbath.

Everything in Paul’s gospel presentation had reference to the Savior, Jesus Christ, and the forgiveness and salvation He brings. It would appear that when Christ is preached in this manner, it may result in opposition. Revelation 14:6 reinforces the enduring and unchanging nature of the everlasting gospel and shows a continuity in God’s intentions of saving the whole world, from the Old Testament into the New Testament (see Gen. 12:3; Isa. 60:3; Matt. 28:19, 20; Rev. 14:6). The gospel, as given to the Israelites—and now to us as Christian believers, who believe in the Second Advent—is given not only for those who grew up as Adventist Christians but also to share with those who still need to hear and respond to Jesus.

**Facing Opposition as Christ’s Followers (Acts 13:6–11, 45; 14:2, 19)**

As we proclaim the gospel we will face tribulation (Acts 14:22). It should not surprise us that Paul and Barnabas faced virtually continuous opposition (Matt. 10:22; John 15:18). In confronting those who oppose those appointed by God to spread the gospel to the lost, we must be filled with the Holy Spirit, who teaches us how to respond to opposition. Sometimes it involves knowing what to say (Acts 13:9, 10); other times we need to be bold and proclaim truth more fervently (Acts 13:46; 14:3); other times, it is best to flee (Acts 14:5, 6).

When we preach and heal through God’s power (Acts 14:8–10) and glory is given to the human instrument instead of to God, this, in a sense, is a subtler attack of the enemy to divert people’s attention away from the gospel message.

This is possibly one of the more dangerous of Satan’s methods (Acts 14:15).

**The Victorious Completion of Christ’s Mission (Acts 14:26, 27)**

Paul and Barnabas completed their first missionary journey in spite of all the hardship. The work of God moves forward victoriously in spite of setbacks After the preaching of the everlasting gospel and the three angels’ messages containing loving appeals and warnings, those who respond are described in Revelation 14:12, and the earth’s harvest is reaped in Revelation 14:14–17. The preaching of the three angels’ messages is completed despite the unprecedented final onslaught from Babylon. The victorious completion of Christ’s mission is based on His promise, “I am with you always, even to the end of the age” (Matt. 28:20, NKJV).

**React**

`1. Describe the prominent role of the Holy Spirit in the early Christian church in directing Paul and Barnabas into unentered areas (Acts 13; 14) as compared to how your local congregation goes about the work of missions today.`

`2. How does the content of the message we preach positively influence or negatively impact the spreading of the gospel?`

`3. What lessons have you learned from how Paul and Barnabas responded to opposition as they went to preach the gospel in various cities in Asia Minor and Cyprus?`

_Ellsworth Mark Baxen, Saint Louis, Seychelles_