---
title:  A World-Changing Gospel
date:  14/08/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 13:47–49

Following the death of Jesus as the fulfillment of the gospel, a new church of hope was established. These zealous individuals, who were named Christians, including Paul and Barnabas, had a great mission set before them. This good news of redemptive salvation was not to remain hidden among the Jews but, rather, to go to the whole wide world (Acts 13:2).

The work wasn’t carried out without much persecution from the Jews (Acts 13:50; 14:2). However, even amid these hindrances from the spiritually arrogant Jews, the Gentiles’ curiosity about the gospel was unquenchable (Acts 13:42). Moreover, the consistent faith and belief of the early church founders led them to persist in sharing. Consequently, their groundbreaking task was accomplished (Acts 13:47–49). Through the lives of these dedicated men, it was testified that truth always prevails over persecution.

Fast-forward hundreds of years, and we, as the collective group of believers, have a similar and very essential work before us. Matthew 24:14 plainly portrays this commission, “And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.” But just as seen in the account of the church of Antioch, we, too, will have many trials to face that will be attempts to obstruct us from furthering the mission. This is only the beginning of the persecutions we will encounter; much greater oppression is foretold to fall upon us as we near the closing events of earth’s history (Matt. 24:9; Luke 21:12). Yet truth will always prevail.

Is the same gospel that was carried from the beginning still as world-changing in our lives today? Are we, through Christ, making a positive difference in the lives of those we come in contact with? Do we have the same eagerness that the apostles had at beginning of the work, as we strive to finish it? God can and will use all of our lives to change this world—one step and one person at a time.

The progress might seem slow and Satan’s roadblocks may seem strong and overbearing, but we must remember that Christ has already overcome the world. We can simply follow in His footsteps. Let us fulfill the duty we are called to by bringing family members, friends, and strangers along with us!

**React**

`1. How can we have faith that prevails over persecution?`

`2. In what ways can we practically, but radically, change the world around us with the gospel?`

_Logan Gardner, Grovespring, Missouri, USA_