---
title:  No Pain in Life, No Gain in Heaven
date:  15/08/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 14:22

Barnabas and Paul were sent by the brethren in Antioch to spread the gospel to the Gentiles along the northern part of the Mediterranean coast. Even though God had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles, the apostles Barnabas and Paul encountered persecution. They were opposed by a sorcerer and by the Jews; prominent women persecuted them; a violent attempt was made to stone them; they were worshiped as gods; and finally Paul was stoned.

After all these difficulties Paul said, “We must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God” (Acts 14:22). Christians will encounter all sorts of problems, from minor suffering such as name-calling to serious persecution that results in bodily harm and even death. But what do Paul and the New Testament teach us about tribulations?

First, tribulation is not optional! Tribulation will come to us in one way or another (2 Tim. 3:12; John 15:18–20; 16:33). However, God will deliver us, comfort us, and work things out in His way (2 Tim. 3:11; 2 Cor. 1:4; Rom. 8:28).

Second, tribulation gives us the character we need to enter heaven. A life of ease and luxury does not build our character; only a life of hardship and struggle does.* God asks us to rejoice in tribulations (2 Cor. 7:4; 12:10; Col. 1:24; 1 Pet. 1:6; 4:13) because they produce character traits we need, such as perseverance, hope, and patience (Rom. 5:3–5, NKJV; James 1:2, 3).

Finally, we must persevere and continue working in spite of the tribulations. They reacted to the tribulations by rebuking Elymas, using them as a teaching opportunity to the Gentiles, and fleeing to other areas. Yet, through it all, they continued strengthening and exhorting the disciples. Our goal is the same as Paul’s, to “enter the kingdom of God,” and we must continue to preach despite the tribulations so that we may one day be counted worthy of the kingdom of God (2 Thess. 1:5).

**React**

`1. What character traits am I lacking that could be grown though persecution?`

`2. Am I ready to pray through persecution? If I am not, what is preventing me?`

_Obed Matus Sánchez, Bryan, Texas, USA_