---
title:  Christian Mission and Opposition
date:  16/08/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 14:1–7

How does one discern God’s will? Many Christians believe that in mission work as well as in other areas of life, if it is God’s will for me to do this, the way will be smooth and free of both difficulties and opposition. However, this idea runs counter to both God’s revealed Word and the personal experience of persecuted Christians all over the world.

Luke seems to emphasize the fact that Paul and Barnabas continued to preach the gospel in Iconium, even when they encountered difficulties and trials. The apostles made a conscious effort to stay and work in spite of the hardships they encountered. After the malicious effort of the Jews to oppose the gospel (Acts 14:2), we find the disciples devoting more time to evangelism (verse 3). As Dennis Gaertner says, the transition between these two verses shows that “the apostles spent considerable time there even though they endured persecution from the Jews.”1

If that is the case, then how does one know (whether in mission work or in other areas of life) whether one’s decisions are in accordance with God’s will? Here the text says that “Paul and Barnabas spent considerable time there, speaking boldly for the Lord” (Acts 14:3, NIV). The Greek preposition epi is here better translated “because of the Lord” or “relying on the Lord.”2

The apostles concentrated on Jesus in their mission work. They did their mission work for the Lord and made decisions relying on His wisdom. For them the gauge of God’s will was not the external, physical opposition but, rather, internal, personal communication with Jesus. This shows us that even when the apostles later fled to Lystra and Derbe to avoid violence in Iconium, this was not their personal decision to avoid persecution but, rather, a change of location given by divine impression.

**React**

`1. Why, do you think, did God choose to use the high priest’s Urim and Thummim to reveal His will to ancient Israel? Why do we not have records of its use in much of the Old Testament and the New Testament?`

`2. How can we balance between bravery and foolhardiness in evangelism? How do we know when it is best to embrace persecution or flee from it?`

_Criscel Leo Garilva, Valencia, Bukidnon, Philippines_