---
title:  A Pattern to Be Followed
date:  17/08/2018
---

**Exploration**: John 13:15–17

**Conclude**

The example at Antioch of the church’s beginning work is an example for us today as we seek to allow God to finish the work. Clear aspects and ingredients of Christ’s method of ministry on earth were continued by the apostles and clearly seen in Paul’s missionary journeys. We can see how they were intimately connected to, led, and empowered by God through the Holy Spirit while preaching, teaching, and ministering the present truth gospel with an attitude of absolute surrender. When we apply the same faithful experiential ingredients to our relationship and correspondence with God, we will see the same results.

**Consider**

- Spending some time studying the parallels between this week’s pattern of ministry and that of Christ’s, the prophets’, and the Reformers’. Focus on the message, demonstrations of the Spirit, and systematic way both Christ and the apostles labored (Matthew 4; Luke 9; 10).

- After prayerful considerations of Christ’s and the apostles’ patterns and methods of labor, ask yourself how these different elements and realities are seen and demonstrated in your life (John 15; Acts 1:8).

- Looking at the field of labor around you in your family, neighborhood, work, or educational setting. Prayerfully consider ways in which you can begin to systematically and consistently begin applying God’s call upon your life to reach the world around you (Luke 10; 12:8–12; 1 John 3:18).

- Praying for and meeting with like-minded friends to explore God’s will and purpose for you together in fulfilling His missional purpose in your life (Heb. 10:23–25).

**Connect**

Matthew 4:28; Acts; Revelation 14.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapters 1–5; The Desire of Ages, chapters 73; 85; The Great Controversy, chapters 36–39.

_Matt Mattzela, Reed City, Michigan, USA_