---
title:  A King Destroyed by Pride
date:   01/02/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Daniel 5:1–31; Psalm 96:5; Colossians 1:15–17; Romans 1:16–32; Revelation 14:8.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “‘He changes the times and seasons of the year. He takes away the power of kings. And he gives their power to new kings. He gives wisdom to people so they become wise. And he helps people learn and know things’” (Daniel 2:21, ICB).

IN DANIEL 5, we see a powerful example of human pride. The story ends in a surprising and awful way. We saw that Nebuchadnezzar takes a long time to learn his lesson. But at least he learns it. Sadly, his grandson, Belshazzar, never does. King Belshazzar takes the gold and silver cups from God’s temple. The king fills them with wine at a wild party. He gives the cups to his guests to drink from. What Belshazzar does is very wrong. It is an attack on God Himself. Belshazzar behaves the same as the little horn power (read Daniel 8). The little horn attacks God’s temple in heaven. So, God removes King Belshazzar’s kingdom and gives it to another king. God will do the same thing to the enemies who hurt His people in the end times. The story in Daniel 5 about King Belshazzar happens in 539 b.c. On that night, the Medo-Persian army takes control of Babylon. This helps us remember the statue in Daniel 2. The 1st kingdom of gold is now replaced by the 2nd kingdom of silver. Gold is a word picture for Babylon. Silver is a word picture for Media-Persia. Everything happens just as God says it will. Again, we see that God controls everything that happens on earth.

`What the king does is very wrong. It is an attack on God Himself.`
