---
title: Belshazzar’s Wild Party
date: 2/2/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 5:1–4. Then read Daniel 1:1, 2. What is Belshazzar doing in Daniel 5 that is so bad? How does Belshazzar show us what is in his heart? Compare his behavior with the woman in Revelation 17:4–6. What is the same about Belshazzar and this woman?`

King Nebuchadnezzar steals the gold and silver cups from God’s temple in Jerusalem. But the king shows some respect for God’s treasures. The king puts the cups in his god’s temple. But his grandson, Belshazzar, does not respect God. Belshazzar orders someone to bring cups to his wild party and fill them with wine. Then the king tells his guests to drink the wine from the cups.

“As they drank the wine, they praised their gods. The statues of those gods were made out of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood or stone” (Daniel 5:4, NIrV). Do you see that their gods are made from six things? The number six was important to Babylonians. They counted things in groups of ten, all the way up to the number 60. 60 was their top number. Then they started over again if they wanted to count higher. So, the number six was special in Babylon. As we said, their gods are made from six different things. The number six shows us that the Babylonians thought their religion was perfect. Do you see that their gods are made from almost the same things as the statue in Daniel 2? Only one thing is different. Babylon’s gods are made of wood, not clay. Also, the Babylonians praise their stone gods last. In Daniel 2, stone is a word picture for God’s power. It shows us that God will judge the kingdoms on this earth (read Daniel 2:44, 45). That includes Babylon.

Belshazzar’s wild party shows us what will happen in the end times. In Revelation 17, we see end-time Babylon as a woman. She behaves the same as Belshazzar. She holds a gold cup filled with wine. She offers it to the people on the earth. The wine is a word picture for her false teachings and false worship. The wine causes people to sin (Revelation 17:4–6). The woman behaves as if she does not care that God will judge her soon. And He will judge her.

The wine is a word picture for Babyon’s false teachings and false worship.
