---
title: The Guest That No One Invited
date: 2/3/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 5:5–8. What happens in this chapter? Why does King Belshazzar do what he does? How is this story the same as the story in Daniel 2? Why is this information important for us to know? (To help you answer this question, read Psalm 96:5 and Colossians 1:15–17.)`

What is the first thing Belshazzar does? He does the same thing that Nebuchadnezzar does in the past (Daniel 2:2; Daniel 4:7). Belshazzar sends for his wise men. He asks them to explain the handwriting on the wall. The king offers the wise men many gifts and honors. He offers: (1) purple clothes. Royal people wore purple clothes in Bible times (Esther 8:15). (2) The king also offers the gift of a gold chain. The gold chain is a sign of power (Genesis 41:42). The person who wears it will be the 3rd most important person in the kingdom. The 1st leader of Babylon is King Nabonidus, Belshazzar’s father. So, Belshazzar is the 2nd leader in Babylon. Yes, he offers his wise men many gifts. But no one can explain the handwriting.

The king looks in the wrong place for help. Babylon’s wise men cannot explain the message. True, it is written in their own language, Aramaic. But the wise men cannot understand its meaning. Isaiah helps us understand why. God will “ ‘destroy the wisdom of those [people] who think they are so wise. I will do away with the cleverness [knowledge] of those [people] who think they are so smart’ ” (Isaiah 29:14, NIrV). Paul writes Isaiah’s words in one of his letters. Then Paul says: “Where is the man who is wise? Where is the man who thinks he knows a lot? Where is the man who thinks he has all the answers? God has made the wisdom of this world [the people on the earth] look foolish” (1 Corinthians 1:20, 21, NLV).

Some truths are too important for humans to figure out on their own. That is why God must show these truths to us.

`Think about the gifts the king offers his wise men. But what happens next to Babylon? What does that tell us about why we need to put God first in everything we do?`

The wise men cannot understand or explain the words. Read Daniel 5:25, NKJV.
