---
title: The Queen Enters
date: 1/28/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the queen in Daniel 5:9–12. What does the queen say about Daniel? Why should Belshazzar already know this information? But the king acts as if he does not know who Daniel is! What does that say to us about the king?`

Everyone at the king’s feast is confused by the message on the wall. Then the queen enters the room. She gives advice to the king. She helps him remember about Daniel. She tells him that Daniel is famous for his skills. He can solve mysteries. Daniel can understand dreams too. He showed his skills during King Nebuchadnezzar’s time. Too bad Belshazzar is not as smart as Nebuchadnezzar. He does not think about asking Daniel for help. So, it is necessary for the queen to help Belshazzar. He does not know what to do next at all. The queen says that Daniel is the only person in the kingdom who can read the message on the wall. The king already should have known this. Then the queen tells the king more about Daniel’s skills. Daniel is filled with God’s Spirit. Daniel is very wise. He understands dreams and solves mysteries. He was the top wise man during Nebuchadnezzar’s time (Daniel 5:11, 12).

So, if all this information is correct, why does Belshazzar not remember Daniel? The Bible does not give us a clear answer to this question. But Daniel is old by this time. He is around 80 years old. So, maybe he has already stopped working. It also is possible that the king wanted to replace Daniel with a younger wise man. Also, the king did not want to follow Daniel’s God. So, that may be another reason the king wanted to replace Daniel. Daniel works for the king for at least three years (Daniel 8:1, 27). Then he retires. We can only guess why Daniel stops working. But whatever the reason, it is strange that the king forgets about Daniel so soon.

`Read Romans 1:16–32. What are the important rules in these verses? How are these rules shown in Belshazzar’s story? How are these rules shown in life around us today?`

The queen says that Daniel is the only person in the kingdom who can read the message on the wall.
