---
title: The King Is Judged Not Good Enough 
date: 2/5/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 5:13–28. In these verses, Daniel tells the king that he will lose his kingdom. Why does Daniel say this to the king?`

The king is in deep trouble. So, he is forced to ask Daniel for help. Daniel will help him. But Daniel tells the king to keep his gifts. Daniel’s words show us the honor in his heart. He understands the message. So, he knows that soon the king’s reward will not be worth much at all.

Then Daniel judges the king. The king is guilty of three crimes. (1) Belshazzar is guilty because he did not learn any lessons from Nebuchadnezzar’s experience. How do we know that? Because Belshazzar never turns away from sin. He has a heart filled with pride. He does not turn to God the same way that his grandfather, Nebuchadnezzar, does. (2) Belshazzar uses the gold and silver cups from God’s temple. The king fills them with wine. Then he and his friends drink the wine and praise their gods. (3) The king fails to give glory and praise to God. God is the One “ ‘who has the power [control] over your life and everything you do’ ” (Daniel 5:23, ERV). Next, Daniel explains the message. It is written in only three verbs from the Aramaic language. The first verb is written twice. The king and his wise men should understand the basic meaning of these words: **“MENE”**: “counted”; **“TEKEL”**: “weighed”; and **“UPHARSIN”**: “divided.” But what do they all mean?

We must remember what happens next in history. Then we will understand better the meaning of the words. The Medo-Persian army is at Babylon’s gates. The wise men may know that the message is a warning. It shows that something awful is about to happen. But no one dares to tell the king. Only Daniel is brave enough to tell the king. He also is the only one there who can solve the mystery. He explains to Belshazzar: “‘Mene: God has counted the days until your kingdom will end. Tekel: You have been weighed on the scales and found not good enough. Upharsin: Your kingdom is being taken from you. It will be divided among the Medes and Persians’” (Daniel 5:26–28, NKJV).

“‘Tekel: You have been weighed on the scales and found not good enough.’”
