---
title: The End Of Babylon
date: 1/30/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the end of Belshazzar’s Babylon in Daniel 5:29–31. Then read about end-time Babylon in Revelation 14:8; Revelation 16:19; and Revelation 18:2. What does the end of Belshazzar’s Babylon teach us about end-time Babylon?`

King Belshazzar keeps his promise to Daniel. The king gives Daniel gifts. Yes, Daniel gives the king bad news. But the gifts show us that the king accepts Daniel’s explanation. By doing so, the king shows that he understands that God is in control. Remember how Daniel did not want the gifts before? Now he accepts them. Why does Daniel change his mind? Maybe Daniel wanted to show the king that he was not out to gain anything for himself. Anyway, the gifts are not worth much. Daniel knows that he will be 3rd ruler in the kingdom for only a few hours. So, maybe Daniel accepts the king’s gifts to be polite.

Babylon ends just as Daniel says. It happens fast. While the king throws a wild party, the Persians take the city. They win the war without a fight! How do they do that? The history writer Herodotus tells us. You will remember that the Euphrates River flowed down the middle of Babylon. So, the Persians dig a long ditch nearby. They cause the Euphrates River to flow into the ditch. Then the Persian army marches down the empty river into Babylon. That night, Belshazzar is killed. His father King Nabonidus already has left the city. But later he gives himself up to the new leaders. In this way, the most powerful kingdom in history comes to an end. Babylon, the gold head, is gone.

“God gave Belshazzar many chances to know Him and follow His plan for his life. Belshazzar saw God remove the power of his grandfather’s mind. Then his grandfather was sent away to live with wild animals in the field. But Belshazzar loved to have fun. He gave glory to himself. He did not learn any lessons from his grandfather’s experience at all. He wasted the chances that God gave him to learn about the truth.”—Ellen G. White, Bible Echo, April 25, 1898, adapted.

By giving Daniel gifts, the king shows that he understands that God is in control.
