---
title: Additional Thought
date: 2/7/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

In Bible times, kings gave big feasts in their palaces. Kings loved to throw big parties to show off all their riches and power. We do not know everything about Belshazzar’s feast. But we do know that it happens when the Medo-Persian army is about to go to war against Babylon. Babylon has strong walls. There is lot of food inside the city. There is enough food to feed everyone in the city for many years. The Euphrates River flows down the middle of the city. So, the city has plenty of water. That is why King Belshazzar throws a party. Yes, the Persian army is all around the city. But the king is not worried about that. He orders a big celebration. Soon, his feast turns into a wild party. Sadly, the king shows the awful pride in his heart. But this story also shows us that God is more powerful than human pride. God sends Daniel to talk to the king. Daniel tells the king that God gave him many chances to learn an important lesson: God is the One “ ‘who has the power [control] over your life and everything you do’ ” (Daniel 5:23, ERV).

“History continues to teach us lessons today. God gives every country and each person a part in His big plan. Today God gives men and kingdoms tests. The God who tests our hearts never makes mistakes. All people make choices that show the future life they choose. God is in control of everything. He will cause His plan to happen.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 536, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. How does culture, or the art, music, sports, ideas, and the entertainment around us, make our faith weak? What should we as a church do about it?`

`2. What does Belshazzar’s story teach us about salvation? Yes, salvation is about what we know. But why is our being saved really about what we do with our knowledge? (Read Daniel 5:22.)`

`3. What important spiritual rules does Daniel 5:23 teach us? Why does this verse warn us not to fight against God? What does this verse teach about God as the One who made us and takes care of us in life?`

`4. Belshazzar does not understand the message (Daniel 5:6). But he is scared anyway. What does that tell us about living with a guilty heart?`

“All people make choices that show the future life they choose.”
