---
title:  The Promised Son
date:  08/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Numbers 24:14–19; Hebrews 1:1–4; Exodus 24:16, 17; Nehemiah 9:6; 2; Hebrews 1:5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “In these last days, he talked to us through [by] his Son. God chose him to be the one to whom [the one who] he would give all things. God also made the world [the earth and everything on it] by this Son. He shines as bright as God. He is just like [the same as] God himself. He holds up the world by the power of his word. He made people clean from their wrong ways. Then he sat down beside [next to] God in heaven” (Hebrews 1:2, 3, WE).

AFTER ADAM AND EVE SIN, God promises them a son. This son will free them. He will help them get back the things they lost. The son will do the things they failed to do (Genesis 3:15). He will take their place. He will destroy the snake.

“Adam and Eve expect God to keep His promise right away. They are happy when their first son is born. They hope this baby is the special son God told them about. But the promise does not happen at that time.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 31, adapted. Later, God makes the same promise to Abraham. God also promises Abraham that his future Son will be a blessing to all people (Genesis 22:16–18; Galatians 3:16). God makes the same promise to David. God promises David that He will adopt his son and make him King above all the kings on the earth (2 Samuel 7:12–14; Psalm 89:27–29). Adam and Eve, Abraham, and David may not have guessed that this promised son will be God Himself!