---
title:  In These Last Days 
date:  09/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Paul knows he lives in the “last days” (Hebrews 1:2, ERV). What does Paul mean by the words the “last days”? The Bible talks about the future in two ways: (1) “the last days” and (2) “the time of the end.” These words do not show the same thing. The Old Testament writers wrote the words “the last days” to talk about tomorrow or a future time (read Deuteronomy 4:30, 31; Jeremiah 23:20). Daniel uses the words “the time of the end” to show the end times and the end of history on earth (Daniel 8:17; Daniel 12:4).

`Read Numbers 24:14–19 and Isaiah 2:2, 3. What does God promise to do for His people in the future?`

Several Old Testament writers announce that God will send a King to His people. This King will destroy their enemies (read Numbers 24:14–19). People from different lands and family groups on earth will search for this King. Their search will lead them to Israel (read Isaiah 2:2, 3). Paul says that Jesus made all these promises happen. Jesus beat Satan. Then He caused people from all over the earth to come to Him (Colossians 2:15; John 12:32). So, these promises show us that “the last days” already started.

Our spiritual fathers died in faith. They did not see the promises of God happen in their time. But we can see how Jesus kept the promises God made to Israel.

Let us think some more about the things God the Father promised. God promised to wake up His children from the dead (1 Thessalonians 4:15, 16). God started to keep this promise when Jesus woke up from the dead (1 Corinthians 15:20; Matthew 27:51–53). God also promised to make everything on earth new (Isaiah 65:17). He started to keep that promise when He made our spiritual lives new (2 Corinthians 5:17; Galatians 6:15). God promises that His kingdom will be the final kingdom on earth (Daniel 2:44). He started this kingdom when He made us free from Satan and made Jesus our King (Matthew 12:28–30; Luke 10:18–20). These promises are just the beginning of the things that God will do. God will finish at the Second Coming the things He started to do when Jesus first came to the earth.

`Look at all the promises God made and kept in the past. How should these promises help us to trust God to keep His promises that have not happened?`