---
title:  God Talks To Us By His Son 
date:  10/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 1:1–4. What do these verses say?`

Hebrews 1:1–4 is only one sentence in the Greek language. Many Bible experts say that this sentence is the most beautiful sentence in the whole New Testament. These verses tell us that God talks to us by Jesus, His Son.

God had not sent any messages to His people since the time of Ezra, Nehemiah, and Malachi, 400 years before. That was a long time ago for the Jews living during New Testament times. But now God communicates to His people again. God sends Jesus to give His people His messages.

These messages from Jesus are better than the messages God gave to His special messengers in the Old Testament. Why? Because Jesus is God Himself. Jesus made the sky and the earth. He controls all the stars and planets in outer space. Paul has no doubts about who Jesus really is. Paul completely accepts that Jesus is God.

Also, Paul accepts that the Old Testament came from God. The same God who communicated Bible truth in the past continues to communicate Bible truth to His people now. The Old Testament shows us the things God wants from us and for us. The Old Testament also shows us the things God will do.

After Jesus came to this earth, we understood the Old Testament better. His coming made possible our deeper knowledge about the Bible. Jesus and His life explained so much of the Old Testament.

Jesus also came to be our Helper and Savior. He takes our place in the fight against the snake. Jesus beats the snake for us. Paul shows us that Jesus is our “perfect Leader” (Hebrews 2:10, NLV). Jesus has “gone . . . ahead of us to God” (Hebrews 6:20, WE). God the Father wants to do for us the things He did for Jesus. God told Jesus to sit at His right side. God also wants us to sit with Jesus on His throne (Revelation 3:21). The message that Jesus gives to us from God includes far more than sermons. The message includes promises. What are these promises? They include everything that God did because of Jesus and for Jesus. God did all these things to bless us now and forever.

`Think about this idea: Jesus, who is God, came to this earth. Why should this Bible truth bring us so much hope?`