---
title:  The Son Shines As Bright As God 
date:  11/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 1:2–4. What do these verses teach us about Jesus?`

We are going to look at the part of Hebrews 1:2–4 that says: “He shines as bright as God. He is just [completely] like [the same as] God himself” (Hebrews 1:3, WE).

`Read Exodus 24:16, 17; Psalm 4:6, NLV; Psalm 36:9; and Psalm 89:15. How do these verses help us understand the glory of God?`

In the Old Testament, the glory of God shows us how God looks to human eyes when He shows Himself to His people (Exodus 16:7; Exodus 24:16, 17; Leviticus 9:23; Numbers 14:10). God often covered Himself in bright light when He was among His people.

The Bible compares Jesus to light. Jesus came to this earth to show us the glory of God (Hebrews 1:3; John 1:6–9, 14–18; and 2 Corinthians 4:6). Remember how Jesus looked to Peter, James, and John after light covered Him? “While these followers watched him, Jesus was changed. His face became bright like [the same as] the sun, and his clothes became white as light” (Matthew 17:2, ERV).

We know about the sun because we can see and feel its light. In the same way, we know God the Father because of Jesus. The Two are One. The glory of God is light itself. Just as light and its bright rays are the same, God and Jesus are the same in heart and mind.

Paul also says that Jesus is “just [completely] like [the same as] God himself” (Hebrews 1:3, ERV). What does Paul mean to show us when He compares Jesus to God in this way? Paul wants us to see that the Father and Son are in perfect agreement. As humans, we are copies of God (Genesis 1:26). We are not the same as God. But the Son is God. No wonder Jesus says, “ ‘Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father too’ ” (John 14:9, ERV).

`The person who has seen Jesus has seen God also. Jesus shows us the love and the glory of the Father. Why is this news so wonderful? What does Jesus tell us about the Father? How does Jesus show the Father to us?`