---
title:  You Give Life To Everything 
date:  12/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews shows us that God made the earth and the sky “through” or “by” Jesus. Jesus keeps everything running smoothly, too. His powerful word gives life to everything.

Read Isaiah 44:24; Isaiah 45:18; and Nehemiah 9:6. In the Old Testament, the Lord says, “ ‘I alone’ ” made the skies and the earth “ ‘by myself’ ” (Isaiah 44:24, NIrV). The Lord also says, “ ‘I am the LORD. There is no other God’ ” (Isaiah 45:16, ERV). But the New Testament tells us that God chose His Son Jesus to give us all things. “God also made the world [the earth and everything in it] by this Son” (Hebrews 1:2, 3, WE). Do these verses show us that the Old Testament and the New Testament writers do not agree about who really made the earth and the skies? How should we understand these verses?

Some people think that Jesus was only a Helper that God used to make everything. This idea is not possible. First, Paul believes Jesus made the earth and everything in it. Jesus was not just a helper (Hebrews 1:10). Paul also says that Psalm 102:25–27 talks about Jesus as the One who made us. Second, Hebrews 2:10 says that all the other planets and stars were made by, or through, the Father. (Hebrews 1:2 also shows us that everything was made by, or through, Jesus.) So, the Father made everything, and Jesus made everything (Hebrews 1:2, 10; Hebrews 2:10), too. The Father and Son are in perfect agreement in their work and plans. This Bible truth is a wonderful mystery that is part of the Bible teaching about the Godhead. The Godhead is the Three-in-One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Yes, Jesus made everything, and so did God. But there is only One God who made everything. So, this teaching shows us that Jesus is God.

Hebrews 4:13 shows us Jesus is also the Judge. Because Jesus is God, He made everything and keeps everything alive (Isaiah 44:24–28). So, Jesus controls everything and is Judge, too.

Hebrews 1:3 and Colossians 1:17 also show us that Jesus “holds everything together by his powerful command” (Hebrews 1:3, ERV). Only the Leader of heaven and earth can do this mighty work. Every breath, every pump of our hearts, and every second of our lives comes from Jesus. He is the reason that all life started and continues.