---
title:  Today I Have Become Your Father 
date:  13/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews 1:5, ERV, reports what God the Father says to Jesus: “ ‘You are my Son. Today I have become your Father.’ ”  What does Paul mean? Does this verse show us that God somehow made Jesus long ago in the past?

`In Hebrews 1:5, Paul talks about a promise God made to David. How is this promise about Jesus? For the answers, read also 2 Samuel 7:12–14; Psalm 2:7; and Luke 1:31, 32.`

During Bible times, Greeks and Romans believed that their kings were adopted by the gods. As the son of a god, a human king can then control the land that belongs only to the gods. This idea helps us understand the promise God makes to David. God promises David that He will “adopt” one of his future sons as His own Son. Then this adopted Son will become the firstborn Son of God and the Prince of heaven and earth. God will give His adopted Son everything. God will beat the enemies of His adopted Son, too. God also will give His adopted Son all the people on the earth as a special gift (Psalm 89:27; Psalm 2:7, 8).

As we see in Romans 1:3, 4 and Acts 13:32, 33, God makes a public announcement that Jesus is His Son. God also announced that Jesus was His Son after Jesus was baptized (Matthew 3:17). Later, God said the same thing when light covered Jesus and changed the way He looked (Matthew 17:5).

Paul also tells us that Jesus “came alive from death. That showed he was God’s Son. He had God’s power” (Romans 1:4, WE). Then God tells Jesus to sit at His right side. When Jesus does these things, we see that God keeps His promise to David. God adopts the son of David as His own Son. God seats His adopted Son on His throne. His Son will be King over all people forever (2 Samuel 7:12–14).

So, Caesar, the King of Rome, is not the real “son of god.” Jesus is. When God “adopts” Jesus, the Bible is not saying that Jesus was born at this time. No, Jesus became King over all people on earth at this time. So, Jesus was never born. He is the same as Melchizedek, who shows us Jesus: “His days have no beginning. His life has no end” (Hebrews 7:3, NIrV; also read Hebrews 13:8.) In the same way, Jesus is everlasting. He always has lived. So, when the Bible says that Jesus becomes a Son, the Bible really shows us what Jesus does to save us. Jesus becomes a Son, so that He can keep all the promises God made to us.