---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus came to this earth as the Son of God to do several things. First, Jesus came to show us the Father and His love. Jesus came to show us why we can trust and obey the Father, too.

Jesus also came as the Son that God promised David, Abraham, and Adam. God promises that this Son will beat the enemy and be King of the whole earth. Jesus came to do what Adam failed to do. Jesus came to show us the plan that God had for our lives before there was any sin (Genesis 1:26–28; Psalm 8:3–8).

“At the Jordan River, God said to Jesus: ‘This is my Son, the one I love. I am very pleased with him’ [Matthew 17:5, ERV]. When God said these words to Jesus, our Helper, God also said them to us. We have many sins and are weak. But God does not throw us away as if we have no worth. ‘We have been accepted by God through [because of] Jesus Christ, whom [who] he loves so much.’ Ephesians 1:6 [WE]. The honor that God gave Jesus is a promise of the love of God for us. . . . Light fell from heaven on the head of our Savior at the Jordan River. This light will fall on us when we pray for help over sin in our lives. The Voice of God from heaven announced His love to Jesus. This Voice of God announces this same love to every person who trusts in God: ‘This is my child, the one I love. I am very pleased with him or her.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 113, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`When we understand better what Jesus said and did, we will understand God better. How has your understanding of Jesus helped your walk with God?`

`The love that God showed Jesus is the love that God wants to show us. What should that Bible truth tell us about how we should love other people, too?`

`What if we believed that Jesus was made the same as we were? How does this idea change what Jesus did at the cross? Compare this idea with the Bible truth that Jesus, as God, died for us. How are these two ideas different, and why is the answer so important?`

`How is our giving glory to God part of the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14:7 and present truth? Present truth is the Bible truth we need most for our time.`