---
title:  The Essentialness of Love
date:  09/08/2026
---

Last week we touched on the theme of love as seen in 1 Corinthians 13. We need to explore Paul’s words here in even more depth.

`Read 1 Corinthians 13. Summarize what he is telling us about love.`

Paul is not saying that tongues (1 Cor. 13:1), prophecy, understanding, knowledge, faith (1 Cor. 13:2), and benevolence (1 Cor. 13:3) are useless. They are useless only if not driven by love.

The kind of love Paul is talking about is not expressed in such sentences as “I love strawberries” or “I love my friends” or even “I love my spouse and children.” Neither is he talking about the kind of love that one sees in movies. And no, it is not erotic love, although this passage has been commonly used in wedding sermons.

This love cannot be reduced to affection, or charity, or virtue, or benevolence. Yet, they all represent it to a lesser or greater degree. This love is a special grace bestowed upon us by the Spirit. Indeed, love in 1 Corinthians 13 is the Spirit-given motivation that leads us to act with affection, charity, virtue, and benevolence. It is a total commitment of our actions, feelings, and thoughts toward Christ and our neighbors.

`Read Matthew 24:12. What warning does Jesus give us here?`

That is why agapē love is so essential and necessary. In the power of Christ, we cannot let love grow cold in our homes, churches, and neighborhoods. We have the example of Christ on the cross, dying for us. What better and more powerful expression of this kind of love could there be? Though of course we could never equally express that kind of love, by God’s grace we should strive to reveal it in our own lives to whatever degree we can.

`What are some times when, indeed, an expression of this kind of love could have made a powerfully positive impression on someone who needed this love more than anything else?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is a great, a solemn work to obtain a moral fitness for the society of the pure and the blest. . . . Only by conforming to the Word of God can we hope to come to “the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ.” But we must do this, or we shall never enter heaven. Without purity and holiness of heart, we cannot win the crown of immortal glory.\
The life of the soul cannot be sustained, except by the right exercise of the affections heavenward, Christward, Godward. Repentance and faith in Christ for the forgiveness of sins are essential, but not all that is required. . . . The Christian’s life is now but just begun. He must, as exhorted by the apostle, “go on unto perfection.” He must bring every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. If we believe in Jesus, we will love to think of Him, love to talk of Him, love to pray to Him. He is supreme in our affections. We love that which Christ loves, and hate that which Christ hates. . . .\
The Christian life is never at a standstill. It is, it must be, progressive. Our love for Christ should become stronger and stronger. . . .\
My brother, my sister, is your soul in the love of God? Many of you have a twilight perception of Christ’s excellence, and your soul thrills with joy. You long for a fuller, deeper sense of the Saviour’s love. You long to entwine your affections about Him more closely. You are unsatisfied. But do not despair. Give to Jesus the heart’s best and holiest affections. Treasure every ray of light. Cherish every desire of the soul after God. Give yourselves the culture of spiritual thoughts and holy communings. . . . Make haste to ripen for Heaven. . . .\
It will cost us something to obtain a Christian experience, and to develop a true and noble character. . . . But the white-robed throng of the redeemed ones, are those who have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.—Our High Calling, p. 338.

Life is a gift of God. Our bodies have been given us to use in God’s service, and He desires that we shall care for and appreciate them. We are possessed of physical as well as mental faculties. Our impulses and passions have their seat in the body, and therefore we must do nothing that would defile this entrusted possession. Our bodies must be kept in the best possible condition physically, and under the most spiritual influences, in order that we may make the best use of our talents. Read 1 Corinthians 6:13.\
Our bodies belong to God. He paid the price of redemption for the body as well as the soul. . . . God is the great caretaker of the human machinery. In the care of our bodies we must cooperate with Him. Love for God is essential for life and health. In order to have perfect health our hearts must be filled with hope, and love, and joy.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 147.