---
title:  What Love Does
date:  10/08/2026
---

First Corinthians 13:4–7 is the heart of the chapter. Paul focuses on the features of love—showing what love is and what it is not, or what love does and does not do. He personifies love so that we can have a glimpse of how a person filled with Spirit-driven love behaves. In his portrayal of love, Paul uses a series of verbs. For him, love is more about actions than about feelings or emotions.

What, then, does love do?

1. Shows patience (_makrothymeō_). _Makrothymeō_ means to show patience, even amid challenging circumstances. Patience also highlights the ability to be forbearing with one another (Eph. 4:2).

2. Shows kindness (_chrēsteuomai_). _Chrēsteuomai_ occurs only here in the New Testament, but other words from the same root are common elsewhere. In the Septuagint (the Greek version of the Old Testament), words from this root occur frequently in the Psalms to refer to God’s kindness associated with His mercy (Ps. 145:9). By saying that love shows kindness, Paul meant that one’s love for others must emulate God’s compassion and mercy toward us.

3. Rejoices (_synchairō_) in the truth. _Synchairō_ denotes the ability to experience joy alongside another person (Luke 1:58; Luke 15:6, 9; 1 Cor. 12:26; Phil. 2:17, 18).

4. Bears (_stegō_) all things. Scholars debate whether _stegō_ means “to cover,” namely, to keep something confidential (which also has a sense of protection), or “to endure,” with a sense of resilience. The concept of endurance clearly occurs in 1 Corinthians 9:12, leading most interpreters and Bible translators to take the second option as more likely.

5. Believes (_pisteuō_) all things. _Pisteuō_ comes from the same root as the Greek term for faith (_pistis_). In the context of 1 Corinthians 13, believing all things means giving one another the benefit of the doubt.

6. Hopes (_elpizō_) all things. In the New Testament, the verb _elpizō_ always refers to the belief or expectation that something good will occur.

7. Endures (_hypomenō_) all things. Likely, there is no difference between the verbs _stegō_ and _hypomenō_ in 1 Corinthians 13:7. They are synonyms, meaning here endurance amid hardship. Paul uses _hypomenō_ at the end of the verse to avoid the repetition of _stegō_. By repeating the same concept even with a different word, he draws attention to believing and hoping as the focal point. In other words, love endures by believing and hoping.

`Compare 1 Corinthians 13:4–7 to Galatians 5:22, 23. What ideas in common do you see between the two passages? How can we manifest this kind of love in our own lives?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The truth of God is designed to elevate the receiver, to refine his taste, and to sanctify his judgment. The character of the Christian should be holy, his manners comely, his words without guile. There should be a continual effort to imitate the society he hopes soon to join, that of angels who have never fallen by sin.\
No man can be a Christian without having the Spirit of Christ; and if he has the Spirit of Christ, it will be manifested in kind words and a refined, courteous deportment. . . . External change will testify to an internal change. The truth is the sanctifier, the refiner. Received into the heart, it works with hidden power, transforming the character. But those who profess to be followers of Christ, and are at the same time rough, unkind, and uncourteous in words and deportment, have not learned of Jesus. A blustering, overbearing, faultfinding man is not a Christian; for to be a Christian is to be Christlike. . . .\
Very many who are seeking for happiness will be disappointed in their hopes, because they seek it amiss, and are indulging in sinful tempers and selfish feelings. By neglecting to discharge the little duties and observe the little courtesies of life, they violate the principles on which happiness depends. True happiness is not to be found in self-gratification, but in the path of duty. God desires man to be happy, and for this reason He gave him the precepts of His Law, that in obeying these he might have joy at home and abroad. While he stands in his moral integrity, true to principle, and having the control of all his powers, he cannot be miserable. With its tendrils twined about God, the heart will be full of peace and joy, and the soul will flourish amid unbelief and depravity.\
Kind words, pleasant looks, a cheerful countenance, throw a charm around the Christian that makes his influence almost irresistible. It is the religion of Christ in the heart that causes the words to be gentle, and the demeanor winning, even to those in the humblest walks of life. In forgetfulness of self, in the light and peace and happiness he is constantly bestowing on others, is seen the true dignity of the man. This is a way to gain respect, and extend the sphere of usefulness, which costs but little; and the one who pursues this course will not complain that he does not receive the honor that is his due. But Bible rules must be written on the heart; Bible rules must be carried into the everyday life.—Reflecting Christ, p. 305.

We need not begin by trying to love one another. The love of Christ in the heart is what is needed. When self is submerged in Christ, true love springs forth spontaneously.\
In patient forbearance we shall conquer. It is patience in service that brings rest to the soul. It is through humble, diligent, faithful toilers that the welfare of Israel is promoted. A word of love and encouragement will do more to subdue the hasty temper and wilful disposition than all the fault-finding and censure that you can heap upon the erring one.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 266.