---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/08/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Need of Love,” pp. 545, 546, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, August 28, 1888.

“No matter how high the profession, he whose heart is not filled with love for God and his fellow men is not a true disciple of Christ. Though he should possess great faith and have power even to work miracles, yet without love his faith would be worthless. He might display great liberality; but should he, from some other motive than genuine love, bestow all his goods to feed the poor, the act would not commend him to the favor of God. In his zeal he might even meet a martyr’s death, yet if not actuated by love, he would be regarded by God as a deluded enthusiast or an ambitious hypocrite.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 318, 319.

“We have an abundance of sermonizing. What is most needed . . . is love for perishing souls, that love which comes in rich currents from the throne of God. True Christianity diffuses love through the whole being. It touches every vital part, the brain, the heart, the helping hands, the feet, enabling men to stand firmly where God requires them to stand, so that they will not make crooked paths for their feet, lest the lame be turned out of the way. The burning, consuming love of Christ for perishing souls is the life of the whole system of Christianity.”—Ellen G. White, Lift Him Up, p. 134.

“Only the love that flows from the heart of Christ can heal. Only he in whom that love flows, even as the sap in the tree or the blood in the body, can restore the wounded soul.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 114.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Do you think Paul’s list of positive features of love is exhaustive? If not, what other elements would you add to the list?`

`What do you think Paul meant by the command “Pursue love” (1 Cor. 14:1, NKJV)? What does this have to do with what he says in 1 Corinthians 13:4–7?`

`Which characteristic of love do you most need to put into practice in your daily life? Which ones are more necessary in your local church? By the way, why does Paul compare love with such gifts as prophecy, tongues, and knowledge (1 Cor. 13:8)?`

`Paul hints that love is the ultimate solution for the lack of unity among members in Corinth. Why? How does this apply to our churches today?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our High Calling, “Overcoming Envy and Jealousy,” August 16, p. 234.\
Our Father Cares, “Christlike Love Blends Heart With Heart,” October 9, p. 294.\