---
title:  The King Is Dead. Long Live The King! 
date:  03/01/2021
---

`Isaiah 6:1 talks about the death of King Uzziah. Read 2 Chronicles 26 and then answer this question: When King Uzziah dies, does his death have a special message? What danger does the king’s death put his people in?`

King Uzziah’s death is a warning to people living in Judah:

1. King Uzziah rules for a long time. But “when Uzziah became strong, his pride caused him to be destroyed. . . . He went into the LORD’s Temple to burn incense [sweet-smelling spices] on the altar” (2 Chronicles 26:16, ERV). The priests, or holy leaders, try to stop Uzziah because he is not from Aaron’s line (2 Chronicles 26:18). Only the sons of Aaron can serve as priests. The king gets very angry. At that instant, the Lord causes leprosy to spread out all over Uzziah’s body. Leprosy is an awful skin disease. Uzziah is covered with leprosy “until the day he died. He had to live in a separate house. He could not enter the Temple of his Lord” (2 Chronicles 26:21, ICB). That is because King Uzziah is not clean.

2. Do you see that Uzziah and Isaiah are very different? Uzziah tries to enter God’s holy temple for the wrong reason. His heart is filled with pride. His behavior shows that his heart is not clean. Isaiah is different from Uzziah. Isaiah confesses that he is weak and full of sin. Isaiah also wants a heart that is clean from sin. God gives Isaiah his wish (Isaiah 6:5–7, ERV). Isaiah is the same as the tax collector in Jesus’ picture story (read Luke 18:14, ICB). God makes Isaiah holy and right with Him.

3. Uzziah’s skin disease shows us God’s people. Their hearts are not clean: “From the bottom of your feet to the top of your head, every part of your body has wounds [deep hurts], cuts, and open sores [openings on the skin that are filled with blood and pus]” (Isaiah 1:6, ERV).

4. Uzziah dies around 740 B.C. When he dies, God’s people start to have many problems with the leadership. When a king dies, his people are in danger. But Judah is in awful danger, because Tiglath-Pileser the Third becomes king in Assyria a few years before, in 745 B.C. Right away, he starts fighting wars. He makes his country a superpower. He tries to control all the countries in the Near East. In this time of trouble, God encourages Isaiah. God shows Isaiah that He is in control of everything.