---
title:  “holy, Holy, Holy” 
date:  04/01/2021
---

Do you see what happens in Isaiah 6:1–4? The king dies during a difficult time. (The Assyrians start wars with the kings in the Near East.) This news may have scared Isaiah as he wondered who is in control.

And then what happens? God gives Isaiah a dream. In the dream, Isaiah sees God’s glory. His glory shines as bright as fire. God sits on His throne. The seraphim, or six-winged angels, keep saying the words “ ‘Holy, holy, holy’ ” (Isaiah 6:3, ERV). The temple floor shakes under Isaiah’s feet. The shaking feels the same as an earthquake. Isaiah looks into the smoke from God that fills the temple. For sure, Isaiah knows that God is in control, even if he feels afraid.

`Where is the Lord in Isaiah’s dream? (Read Isaiah 6:1). Why does the Lord show Himself in the temple to Isaiah? Why doesn’t the Lord show Himself to anyone else? (Read Exodus 25:8 and Exodus 40:34–38.)`

Ezekiel, Daniel, and John the Beloved are far from home when God gives them their special dreams (read Ezekiel 1; Daniel 7:9, 10; and Revelation 4, 5.) They also need God to comfort and encourage them, just as Isaiah does. They all need to know that God is in charge. (Daniel and Ezekiel are taken as prisoners to Babylon after the Babylonian army destroy their own country. The Roman government sends John to live on a lonely island.) For sure, the dreams from God give these men what they need to keep their faith strong.

“Isaiah looks at God’s glory and majesty. He now knows that God is very holy. But God’s people are not holy. They are filled with sin. They are very different from the perfect God who made them.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 307, adapted.

The message of Isaiah’s dream shows us that God is very holy. As a holy God, He commands His people to be holy too. God will give holy hearts and minds to His people. But first, they must turn from their evil ways. Then they must give their hearts to God in faith and obey Him.

`We all have had experiences that are difficult. Everything looks hopeless. How did the Lord make you strong during these times? What did you learn from these experience that you can share with other people?`