---
title:  A New Man 
date:  05/01/2021
---

Only the high priest, or chief holy leader, can meet with God in the Most Holy Room in God’s temple on the day that God judges His people. But the high priest can only meet with God if he is covered in smoke. If not, the high priest will die (Leviticus 16:2, 12, 13). But Isaiah sees the Lord in the smoke, and he is not the high priest. What is more, Isaiah is not burning any spices to protect himself!

The temple fills with smoke (Isaiah 6:4). The smoke helps us remember the cloud around God on the day He judged His people (Leviticus 16:2). Isaiah is afraid he will die (compare Exodus 33:20; Judges 6:22, 23). Isaiah cries out. He confesses his sin and his people’s sin (Isaiah 6:5). In the same way, the high priest confessed on the day God judged His people (Leviticus 16:21). “Isaiah stands in God’s full light in the Most Holy Room. Isaiah knows that he needs God’s help. Or he will fail to do what God asks.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 308, adapted.

`Why does the seraph, or angel with six wings, use a burning coal to clean Isaiah’s lips (Isaiah 6:6, 7)?`

The seraph explains that the burning coal will take away Isaiah’s guilt and sin (Isaiah 6:7). The Bible does not tell us what these sins are. Just because the seraph touches Isaiah’s lips doesn’t limit Isaiah’s sin only to saying wrong words. Lips are a word picture for more than the words someone says. They show us the whole person who says them. Now that Isaiah is clean, he can praise God.

Fire makes things clean. It burns away sin (Numbers 31:32). But the seraph uses a coal from the special, holy fire on the altar. God Himself started the fire. The holy leaders do not let it stop burning (Leviticus 6:12). The reason that someone takes a coal from the altar is so he can burn the sweet-smelling spices. If you look at Leviticus 16:12, 13, you will see that the high priest uses some coals from the altar to light the spices. But in Isaiah 6, the seraph puts the coal on Isaiah’s lips and not on the spices. Remember, King Uzziah wanted to offer God burning spices. But in Isaiah 6, Isaiah becomes the same as the burning spices! Holy fire starts the spices burning. The perfume fills God’s house. In the same way, holy fire fills Isaiah. He “burns” with the wish to share God’s message. That is why God sends Isaiah out to His people.