---
title:  Royal Command 
date:  06/01/2021
---

**“Then I heard the Lord’s voice, saying, ‘Who can I send? Who will go for us?’ So I said, ‘Here I am. Send me!’ ” (Isaiah 6:8, ERV).**

God asks for a volunteer to share His message. After Isaiah is made clean, he says he will go. In New Testament times, Isaiah would be named an apostle. An apostle is “a person that God sends.”

Many books about prophets, or God’s special messengers, start with a story about how God asked the prophet to work for Him. (Read Jeremiah 1:4–10; Ezekiel 1–3.) It is interesting to see that the book of Isaiah doesn’t start that way. What does that tell us? God must have already called Isaiah to be a prophet, maybe even before the happenings in chapter 6. The Bible shows us that a meeting with God can encourage a prophet, even after he starts His work for God (two examples are Moses in Exodus 34 and Elijah in 1 Kings 19). In other Bible examples, God tells people they are prophets. But in Isaiah 6, Isaiah volunteers to do special work for God. Isaiah 1–5 show us the time when God first calls Isaiah to be a prophet. After that, God encourages Isaiah at the temple and announces again that Isaiah is His prophet.

`God encourages Isaiah at His temple. What proof is there in the Bible that God’s house is a place of encouragement? Read Psalm 73 (and also Psalm 73:17), Hebrews 4:14–16; Hebrews 10:19–23; and Revelation 5. How do these verses help us answer the question?`

God’s temple is filled with His power. It is a place where people who are weak and make mistakes can come and find safety. That includes us. We can be sure that God works to save us because of Jesus. Jesus is our High Priest, or chief holy leader, in heaven.

John also sees Jesus shown as a lamb that was killed. The lamb’s throat is cut open (Revelation 5:6). This is not a pretty picture. The word picture helps us to see that Jesus’ blood saves us. Yes, Jesus woke up from the dead and went to heaven. At the same time, the Cross is important to everything He does for us. He died on the cross to save all who will believe in Him.