---
title:  A Strange Message 
date:  07/01/2021
---

`God calls Isaiah again to work as His prophet, or special messenger. Why do you think God gives Isaiah a very strange message? Read Isaiah 6:9, 10 for the answer.`

We must not think that Isaiah does not understand God or that this message is not important. Jesus says these verses to explain why He taught in picture-stories (Matthew 13:13–15).

God does not want anyone to die in sin (2 Peter 3:9). That’s why God sends Isaiah to the people living in Judah. That’s why God sends Jesus to this earth. Some people accept God’s gift of mercy. But other people turn away from it. God keeps on giving them more chances to turn away from sin. But when people refuse to accept God’s offer again and again, their hearts grow harder. God wants to soften their hearts. But they will not let Him. God’s love for us doesn’t change. The only thing that changes is our answer.

Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Jesus keep asking people to come back to God. They continue to ask, even if people turn away from the message. God says to Ezekiel: “ ‘But even if they don’t stop sinning, at least they will know that there is a prophet living among them’ ” (Ezekiel 2:5, ERV). God and His servants give people a fair choice and enough warning (compare Ezekiel 3:16–21). So, if the people choose to be destroyed or taken prisoners, God cannot be blamed for their choice (Isaiah 6:11–13).

`Knowing all this, how do we understand God’s part in making Pharaoh, the King of Egypt’s, heart “hard”?`

`In Exodus 4:21, ERV, God says, “ ‘I will cause Pharaoh to be very stubborn.’ ” Another Bible puts it this way: “ ‘I will make his heart hard’ ” (Exodus 4:21, NLV). This is the first of nine times when God says that He will make Pharaoh’s heart hard. But there are also nine times when Pharaoh makes his own heart hard (as an example, see Exodus 8:15, 32; Exodus 9:34). This shows us that Pharaoh had free choice. Or he can’t make his own heart hard. But what does it mean that God also makes Pharaoh’s heart hard? It shows us that God did things that showed what was in Pharaoh’s heart. This is seen in the choice Pharaoh makes to refuse to believe the miracles and signs God sent. What if Pharaoh accepted these signs? Then the signs would soften his heart, not make it hard.`