---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/01/2021
---

“The people of Israel start sinning so much. Only a few people choose to be loyal to God. They often feel as if they will lose all hope. They feel sad and discouraged. To them, it looks as if God’s plan for Israel is about to fail. For sure, they think that Israel will end up the same as Sodom and Gomorrah.

“At this time, God sends Isaiah to warn the people in Judah about their sins. God calls Isaiah in the last year that Uzziah is king. At first, Isaiah pulls back from God’s task. Isaiah knows that he will meet very stubborn people.  They will refuse to listen to him. Isaiah sees that he can’t do the job alone. The stubborn hearts of the people make him feel hopeless. So does their refusal to believe. Should Isaiah give up the work and leave Judah to their worship of false gods? Are the gods of Nineveh to control the earth and not the God of heaven?”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 306, 307, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What if someone who doesn’t believe in God asks, “How can you show me that your God is in charge?” What will you answer?`

`If God is in charge, why do good people suffer? Is Isaiah 1:19, 20 saying that in this life only good things will happen to God’s loyal people and only bad things will happen to people who disobey God? Compare with Job 1, 2; Psalm 37; Psalm 73. How do we explain that a God of love lets bad things happen? Do we even need to?`

`In Isaiah 6, why are there so many connections to the day when God makes His people and His temple clean? This work happens on one day each year in the Old Testament. On this day, also known as the Day of Atonement, God makes His people clean by washing away their sins (Leviticus 16:30) and removing the people who do not obey Him (Leviticus 23:29, 30).`

**Summary**: At a time when Israel has a problem with leadership, Isaiah sees a vision. The vision shows that God is in control of heaven and earth. Isaiah is filled with fear. But God makes him clean and makes him strong. Then Isaiah goes forward to give God’s message to people who have turned away from Him.