---
title:  Free Choice, Love, and God’s Power
date:   15/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

Psalm 81:11–14; Revelation 11:17; Matthew 22:37; Ephesians 1:9–11; John 16:33.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘I told you these things so that you can have peace in me. In this world [among people who hate God’s cause] you will have trouble. But be brave! I have defeated [won the fight against] the world [the things that get in the way of God’s cause and block it]!’ ” (John 16:33, ICB).

God does many things to take care of His people. God’s work and care for His people on this earth has a special name: providence. How we think about God’s providence or care for us is important. Our thoughts and feelings about God, other people, and the problem of evil come from our understanding of God’s providence.

Not all Christians believe that God wants good things for all of us. Some Christians believe that God uses His power to control everything that happens. These Christians believe God decides who will be saved and who will be lost. This idea teaches us that people aren’t free to choose. People who believe this way say that God decides our feelings, not us. Compare this idea with the Bible teaching that God doesn’t decide everything for us. God gives us the freedom to choose. He allows us (and angels) to choose to do things that He doesn’t like or want. The story about the Fall, sin, and evil shows us what happens when we make bad choices. God made His plan to save us from the bad things that happened when humans chose the wrong things.