---
title:  God Is In Control
date:   16/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The youth pastor told a group of students in middle school, “God is in control. That means God controls everything that happens.” One confused middle school student said, “So, God was in control when my dog died? Why did God kill my dog?”

The youth pastor tried to answer the question: “That’s a difficult question. Sometimes God lets hard times happen to us to help us be ready for more difficult things in the future. When my dog died, I was very sad. But that experience helped me later on when my grandma died. Does this example help you understand?”

After a while, the student said, “So, God killed my dog to help me get ready for the time when He’s going to kill my grandma?”—Marc Cortez, in John C. Peckham, Divine Attributes: Knowing the Covenantal God of Scripture (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2021), page 141, adapted.

People sometimes think that everything happens in the way God wants. They think that whatever happens in life is just what God wanted. God is all-powerful, right? How, then, can anything happen that God doesn’t want to happen? So, the bad things that happen must be part of God’s plan. That is what this belief teaches.

`Read Psalm 81:11–14; Isaiah 30:15, 18; Isaiah 66:4; and Luke 13:34. What do these verses say about the things that happen? Does everything happen because God wants it to? What does the Bible really teach on this topic?`

Yes, many people believe God must always get what He wants. But the Bible tells a different story. Again and again, the Bible shows God not getting what He wants. Things happen that God does not want to happen. God often announces that what is happening is not what He wants. God wants something good for His people, but they choose something different. God feels sad when He says, “ ‘But my people wouldn’t listen to me. Israel wouldn’t obey me. . . . I wish my people would listen to me! I wish Israel would live as I want them to live! Then I would quickly [very fast] bring their enemies under control’ ” (Psalm 81:11, 13, 14, NIrV).

`Think about the teaching that everything that happens is what God wants. How does this idea, then, explain evil?`