---
title:  Our All-Powerful God
date:   17/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible shows us that God is very powerful. The Bible includes stories about God doing miracles. Even so, many things happen that God doesn’t want to happen.

`Read Revelation 11:17; Jeremiah 32:17–20; Luke 1:37; and Matthew 19:26. Think also about Hebrews 1:3. What do these verses teach us about how God is very powerful?`

These verses and other ones teach us that God is all-powerful. He keeps everything going with His power. The book of Revelation again and again names God the “Lord God All-Powerful” (Revelation 11:17, ERV; compare with 2 Corinthians 6:18; Revelation 1:8; Revelation 16:14; Revelation 19:15; Revelation 21:22). The word written as “Lord God All-Powerful” is **“pantokrator”** in the Greek language. **“Pantokrator”** means “all-powerful.” God shows He is all-powerful when God saves His people or does a miracle.

When we say that God is “all-powerful,” we don’t mean that God can do everything. The Bible teaches us that there are some things God can’t do. 2 Timothy 2:13 says that God “cannot go against what He is” (NLV).

Most Christians agree that God is all-powerful. God can’t do anything that is false. Some things aren’t possible for God because if He did these things, He would not be true to Himself. We learn about this idea in Jesus’ prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus said, “ ‘God can do anything’ ” (Matthew 19:26, ERV). Jesus also prayed to God the Father before He was nailed to the cross, “ ‘My Father, if it can be, let this cup of trouble pass [be removed] by [from] me. But do not do what I want. May what you want be done’ ” (Matthew 26:39, WE).

Of course, the Father had the power to save Jesus from suffering on the cross. But God could not do that while also saving sinners. God had to choose to do one or the other, not both.

`The Bible also teaches that God wants to save everyone (read 1 Timothy 2:4–6; Titus 2:11; 2 Peter 3:9; Ezekiel 33:11). Not everyone will be saved. What does this Bible truth teach us about our free choice and the limits of God’s power in our lives?`