---
title:  To Love God
date:   18/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw already, God is all-powerful. But that doesn’t mean that God can do something that goes against Himself. So, God can’t make someone decide to love Him. When we choose to do something without anyone forcing us, we are making a free choice. So, we can’t **force** anyone to love us. God can’t force anyone to love Him. When love is forced, then love is no longer love.

`Read Matthew 22:37 and Deuteronomy 6:4, 5. What do these verses teach us about our free choice?`

The most important commandment is proof that God does want everyone to love Him. But not everyone loves God. So, why doesn’t God make everyone love Him? That answer is that love must be freely given, or love can’t be love.

`Read Hebrews 6:17, 18 and Titus 1:2. What do these verses teach us about God?`

Numbers 23:19 says, “ ‘God is not a man. He will not lie’ ” (ICB). God never lies (Titus 1:2). God always does what He says He will do. God never breaks a promise (Hebrews 6:17, 18). If God promises something, then that promise limits God’s future actions.

What does this mean? God gives us the freedom to choose. So, what we choose isn’t up to God. People can make choices that go against God’s wishes and plan. Sad to say, many people do make choices that go against God. That’s why many things happen that God doesn’t want.

`Think of a time when you did something that you knew God didn’t want you to do. What does this experience teach you about our freedom, as humans, to choose?`