---
title:  God’s Perfect Plan And His Corrective Plan
date:   19/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Ephesians 1:9–11. What are these verses saying about who is saved and who is lost? Does the Bible teach that God chooses to save some people and not other people?`

Do you see the words written as “already planned” (ERV) or “already chosen” (ICB) in Ephesians 1:11? These words come from the Greek word **“prohorizo**.” This word does not teach that God decides what will happen in history before it happens. **“Prohorizo”** means “to make a decision before something happens.”

Of course, someone can make a decision without caring about what other people think or want. Or someone can decide to do something in a way that respects the free decisions of other people. When God decides to do something, He respects the decisions that other people made.

The Greek word written as “already chosen” shows us what God plans for the future after He shows respect for the free decisions of people. So, God can guide history in a way that is best for everyone. At the same time, He respects the freedom He gives us. Without this freedom, God can’t have a real love relationship with us.

Ephesians 1:11 announces that God “decided to choose us long ago in keeping with his plan” (NIrV). Does this verse mean that God decides everything to happen the way He wants? If we read this verse alone, we may think it is teaching this idea. But this belief would go against many of the verses we saw earlier that show that people sometimes reject God’s plan (Luke 7:30; compare with Luke 13:34; Psalm 81:11–14). If the Bible doesn’t lie, how can these verses say something that goes against what the Bible says about this topic elsewhere?

Ephesians 1:11 is easy to understand if we know that God has two plans for our lives: His perfect plan and His corrective plan. God’s perfect plan for our lives is what God wishes to happen for us from the beginning. This plan is the one that would happen if everyone always did what God wanted. God’s corrective plan is God’s wish for our lives when we don’t follow His perfect plan. God puts this plan into action to help save us. Ephesians 1:11 is talking about God’s corrective plan.