---
title:  Jesus Wins The Fight For Us
date:   20/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

If everything happened the way God wanted, there would be no evil. Perfect love and peace would fill the earth. Jesus will make this happen in the future. But for now, God works out His plan in a way that respects the free choices of people.

Imagine in your mind a baking contest or match. All the bakers must use the same basic ingredients. They can add anything to the mix they want to make any cake they want to make. In the end, whatever cake a baker makes comes from, at least in part, some things in the mixture that he didn’t choose.

In the same way, God respects our freedom. This freedom is necessary for our love. Many of the things that happened in history weren’t God’s choices.

In this view, God doesn’t control everything that happens. God causes some things in this life to happen. Other things happen because of the free choices that we make. Many things happen that God doesn’t want to happen.

`Read John 16:33. What hope does this verse offer us during hard times or when we are suffering?`

People’s faith often grows weak because they believe the false teaching that God will or should keep them from suffering or hard times. But Jesus tells us a very different story. Jesus warns His followers that they will have much trouble in this life. But there is hope. Jesus won the war against evil (John 16:33).

Yes, we may suffer or have troubles. But these things do not mean that suffering and trouble are part of God’s perfect plan for us. We always must remember the worldwide war between good and evil. We know that evil is not necessary for good to happen. At the same time, we know that God can bring good out of evil happenings. If we trust God, He can use our sufferings to bring us closer to Him and to help us to be more loving and caring for other people.