---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   21/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘God With Us,’ ” pages 19–26, in The Desire of Ages.

“God’s plan to save us was not something He thought about after Adam sinned. God’s saving plan was ‘the secret truth that was hidden for ages and ages but has been made known.’ Romans 16:25 [ERV]. This plan showed the important rules of God’s government. From the beginning, God and Jesus knew Satan would fall and cause people to sin. God didn’t cause sin to happen. But God saw that sin would come. So, He made a plan to meet the terrible emergency. God loved humans so much that He promised to give His one and only Son, Jesus. ‘Anyone who believes in him will not die but will have eternal [everlasting] life.’ John 3:16 [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God doesn’t always get what He wants. How does this Bible truth change the way you think about what happens in this life? What does it mean for you personally that God doesn’t always get what He wants?`

`God and Jesus “knew Satan would fall and cause people to sin.” But they went ahead and made humans anyway. God also made us free to love. God knew that giving us this freedom of choice would send Jesus to the cross. Jesus went to the cross for us so that we could be free to love. What does this Bible truth tell us about how important and holy love is to God’s government?`

`Often, we can’t understand why we must suffer. Or we can’t see how our suffering can lead to any good. But many things happen in this life that aren’t part of God’s plan. How does this Bible truth help you to understand your own suffering better?`