---
title:  What Family Is About
date:  27/04/2019
---

**Introduction**: Prov. 3:5, 6

Our favorite family activity is to go snorkeling. Over the past five years, our family has had the privilege to serve as missionaries in the Philippines. So when we have a free day, we like to go to the beach, put on our fins and snorkels, and discover amazing sea creatures. I love looking for “clown fish” (made famous by the movie Finding Nemo), about which I’ve learned that there are many different varieties. What is consistent about them is that they always live near sea anemones.

Anemones are actually quite dangerous—they sting and can even kill other fish. But the clown fish is immune to its poison, and in fact, seems to thrive within its tentacles. Together they protect one another; they help each other. In fact, they remind me of the distinct roles that each person has within the family according to the book of Proverbs. Each member of the family has a responsibility to look out for, listen, care, and nurture the precious relationships that make up a family.

This week we will look at the many different ways to have healthy, thriving families that we can learn from King Solomon. Whether we are young or old, single or married, we each have a distinct role to play in our familial relationships. By learning from these wise words, we can fulfill God’s plan for our lives. Of course, many people will reflect about not only their own family (perhaps their parents or grandparents) but, at this stage in life, the suitability of a life partner. This lesson has helpful words of wisdom about character traits to look for in a godly spouse. As you reflect upon the lesson this week, think about not only those traits you would seek in a spouse (for those who are single) but how you can strive for those things in your own life.

This week is an invitation, as you study the lesson, to grow in your relationship with Jesus Christ. As we grow closer to Jesus, we grow closer to one another in our familial relationships. All human relationships, for that matter, become much richer when Jesus is the foundation of the relationship—most important, in the home.

---

_Emma Campbell, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_