---
title:  Little Things
date:  29/04/2019
---

**Testimony**: Luke 16:10

“ ‘He that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.’ By unfaithfulness in even the smallest duties, man robs his Maker of the service which is His due. This unfaithfulness reacts upon himself. He fails of gaining the grace, the power, and the force of character, which may be received through an unreserved surrender to God. Living apart from Christ he is subject to Satan’s temptations, and he makes mistakes in his work for the Master. Because he is not guided by right principles in little things, he fails to obey God in the great matters which he regards as his special work. The defects cherished in dealing with life’s minor details pass into more important affairs. He acts on the principles to which he has accustomed himself. Thus actions repeated form habits, habits form character, and by the character our destiny for time and for eternity is decided.

“Only by faithfulness in the little things can the soul be trained to act with fidelity under larger responsibilities. . . . “. . . In the smallest as well as the largest affairs of life He desires us to reveal to men the principles of His kingdom.”1 “The voice and tongue are gifts from God, and if rightly used, they are a power for God. Words mean very much. They may express love, devotion, praise, melody to God, or hatred and revenge. Words reveal the sentiments of the heart. They may be a savor of life unto life or of death unto death. The tongue is a world of blessing, or a world of iniquity.”2 “I love you” is a common phrase among young people today. However, it carries a much deeper meaning with far-reaching consequences and repercussions. “I love you” is such a special phrase when shared between two people who are in love. A relationship has to be more than just words. The Bible compares Christ’s love for the church to that of the love between a husband and wife. That is how profound the love between spouses ought to be. We can learn to trust God and choose to honor Him with our lives, especially in the details about how we express our love and affection.

**React**

`1. What guidance does Ellen White offer for how to choose a life partner?`

`2. How can our attitude shape our speech?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 356, 357.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Manuscript 40, 1896.</sup>

_Ashley Natasha Odhiambo, Cavite, Philippines_