---
title:  Family First—Keeping It Together
date:  30/04/2019
---

**Evidence**: Prov. 6:23–29; 13:24; 31:10–31

Family should be where one finds emotional bonding, unconditional acceptance, and physical nurture. In Proverbs, three areas present themselves as fruitful for developing a happy home. Discipline. Proverbs 13:24 says, “Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him” (ESV). It is possible to misinterpret this verse in order to justify a liberal dose of corporal punishment upon a child. The rod here is simply the instrument of discipline, and a thoughtful consideration of the text reveals that it merely symbolizes discipline. The Hebrew word for “rod,” shebet, can refer to a shepherd’s staff, which protects and guides a wandering sheep. An occasional whack on the back is meant to guide rather than harm, even for the “black sheep” of the family!

Chastity. Again and again Solomon advises avoiding the seductive adulteress. This was not just meant for men, either. It is important to note that Proverbs was written by a king to his son, the heir to the throne. This narrative style was a literary device used in the ancient Near East. The intent was to caution the heir to the throne rather than vilify all women as potential seducers. Two main ideas stand out in Proverbs 6:23–29. First, sexual infidelity causes family discord and breaks up marriages. Second, the temptation to sexual infidelity is dangerously alluring. No matter how beautiful the person may look at the time, if you succumb to this temptation, it will destroy you and your family! Virtue. Proverbs 31:10–31 praises the idealized virtuous woman. She is loyal, hardworking, industrious, prudent, generous, respectful, caring, and God-fearing. In picking the right life mate, one must keep in mind characteristics that contribute toward a happy family. Proverbs 31:30 advises, “Charm is deceptive, and beauty is fleeting; but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised” (NIV). So how do we keep things together within the family? Discipline children redemptively so that there is order in the home. Maintain chastity in order to have a happy marriage. And finally, cultivate the characteristics that you want to look for in a spouse so that there will be enduring peace, love, and joy in your home.

**React**

`1. What does redemptive discipline look like in the home?`

`2. How can both men and women keep themselves sexually pure?`

`3. What characteristic do you most desire in a spouse? Do you possess it yourself?`

---

_Karan Kenneth Swansi, Cavite, Philippines_