---
title:  Fruits of the Family
date:  01/05/2019
---

**How-to**: Prov. 11:30

“The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he who wins souls is wise” (Prov. 11:30, NKJV). My family loves to eat fruit every day! We have all kinds of tropical fruits available. Fruit is good for us as a healthy form of sugar, and honestly, my family has a bit of sweet tooth anyway. Many of these tropical fruits grow on trees in our garden. What is the spiritual fruit we can bear in our lives? Here are some of them: Hospitality. This is an important spiritual fruit. The Bible teaches that everyone must be hospitable, especially to strangers (Isa. 58:7). When we are hospitable, we share our blessings with others, expecting nothing in return. When we invite others into our homes, we often become the ones who are blessed. We find ourselves enriched. We need to especially invite those who are less fortunate, perhaps even hungry, so that our hospitality extends to those who need it the most.

Unity. Family unity is when all of us as a spiritual family are united as one in Jesus Christ and enjoy being a part of God’s family. Unity means that we do things together and are there for one another when we are either “up” or “down.” Even the small things matter, such as sharing a meal or worshiping God together as a family. We grow closer to one another as we grow spiritually and learn together how to develop patience and other Christian traits of character. Cheerful spirit. Although last, this is not the least of important spiritual fruit. A cheerful spirit is vital within the family. When our families struggle through issues, with a cheerful spirit we may remember that we have hope—most important of all is the blessed hope that Jesus is coming again soon. This helps us both remember what we are here for and put things into perspective. A happy family lives the message of faith and hope for the world to see.

**React**

`1. Which spiritual fruit do your families exhibit? How can you develop such spiritual fruit in serving others in your family?`

`2. How can we make our fruit—like fruit growing in the garden—tangible? In what ways can we cultivate such spiritual fruit in our Christian experience?`

---

_Margarita Zubkova, Cavite, Philippines_