---
title:  Spare the Rod and Spoil the Child
date:  02/05/2019
---

**Opinion**: Prov. 29:15

When I was a child, my least favorite word in the dictionary was probably discipline. Let’s be honest, no one likes being told they are wrong, and certainly no one is fond of being punished. However, the Bible has a lot to say about this topic. Proverbs is perhaps the best place to reflect on what correction with love really means.

The Israelites got into a lot of trouble—on a regular basis too. Murmuring, they complained, built a golden calf, and got sidetracked with other enticements from the surrounding heathen nations. Yet, they were still God’s chosen people. God still loved them, and because He did, He at times allowed them to be attacked by the enemy by removing His protection from them (something He did not want to do). All this time God never left or forsook them. The Bible clearly mentions that whom the Lord loves, He chastens (Heb. 12:6).

Likewise, if parents love their children, they have a responsibility to mold their characters. There is accountability in any healthy family. While children may not appreciate correction at the time, in the long run, they will come to realize (hopefully!) that such correction (when done in love; see Prov. 15:1; 16:23) was meant to guide them so that they could become responsible adults. Most important, such loving correction should lead us to better understand how God views us.

Children also have a responsibility to obey their parents. Discipline, obedience, respect, and love are different ingredients that when baked together produce a deliciously attractive family. In other words, a family that has Christ as its center requires effort on the part of both the parents and the children to work together to incorporate these qualities as they seek to discover new ways to love one another.

**React**

`1. What do you think is the best way for parents to discipline their children? What forms of discipline did you respond to best in your development?`

`2. How do you think God disciplines us today?`

`3. How can we continue to be accountable as young adults?`

`4. Can you identify instances and stories from the Bible where discipline was evident?`

---

_Rhea Joanna Marandi, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Sydney, Australia_