---
title:  Families Who Trust
date:  03/05/2019
---

**Exploration**: Prov. 3:5

**Conclude**

Proverbs is a treasure chest of wisdom. All of its advice is timeless because the words were inspired by God as an expression of love for His children. We can trust the Lord no matter how great our problems might be, and when we do, it is the best decision that we can make (Prov. 3:5). The Lord wants us to live lives of prosperity and blessing beyond what we can imagine for ourselves or for our families, and we will, if we trust Him.

**Consider**

- Taking a walk with your family and discussing three things that you love most about each person in your family. Be creative and sincere.
- Making a photo album with family pictures and memories, then underneath each picture sharing why you are grateful to God for each one.
- Writing a personal letter to each member of your family, recounting your favorite memories with them. Save these letters and read them in times when you might feel down or alone.
- Scheduling a special family outing once or twice a month where your family will not be distracted. Turn off your phones so that you can focus on communicating with one another and on everyone’s emotional needs.
- Talking to a family member who you don’t connect with as often. Remind them that you love them and that you are grateful to God that they are a part of your family.
- Writing a poem or a song or drawing a picture that expresses how you feel about the members of your family and how grateful you are to God that they are a part of your life.


**Connect**

Samuele Bacchiocchi, The Marriage Covenant (Biblical Perspectives, 2006).

Ken Canfield, The 7 Secrets of Effective Fathers (Tyndale, 1992).

Kay Kuzma, To Understand Your Child (Parent Scene, 1985).

Mary Stewart Van Leeuwen, Gender and Grace: Love, Work, and Parenting in a Changing World (IVP Academic, 1990).

Nancy Van Pelt, The Compleat Parent (Review and Herald®, 1976).

---

_Miguel Alejandro Patiño Ramirez, Hong Kong Adventist Academy_