---
title:  The Golden Box
date:  23/09/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 26**

**The Golden Box**

Leviticus places high value on obeying the Ten Commandments, teaching us why we need them and how to apply them practically to our lives. It was the written result of God speaking to Moses from the tabernacle of meeting (Lev. 1:1), which contained the ark of the covenant.

God had chosen a particular people, Israel, to represent Him to the world, and He had placed His sanctuary in the midst of their camp. This small but beautiful tent building was divided into two rooms: the Holy Place and Most Holy Place. God’s presence dwelled in the Most Holy Place and hovered over the ark of the covenant, inside which lay the original Ten Commandments, written in stone by God Himself (Exod. 31:18; 32:16; 40:20). Placing the Ten Commandments at the very center of Israel’s place of worship shows that God’s law is central to understanding the message of Leviticus and the sanctuary.

Leviticus 26 begins with God reminding Israel of the first four commandments, which concern our relationship with Him (vv. 1, 2). We’re often taught that having a relationship with God includes prayer, Bible study, and witnessing, and while it most certainly does, Leviticus adds obedience. Here is a list of the blessings God promises to everyone who is willing to “walk in My statutes and keep My commandments” (v. 3): rain for the crops, productive harvests, protection from danger, peace in the land, victory over enemies, fertility, and freedom from oppression (vv. 4–13). The best blessing is arguably the final one, found in verse 12, where God says, “I will walk among you and be your God, and you shall be My people.” Those who obediently walk in God’s law of love walk with Him!

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 26 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 26:40–46. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `