---
title:  Two Functions
date:  24/09/2023
---

#### inGest

Levitical laws can be categorized into three types of laws: First, there were the ceremonial laws, which were represented in the sacrifices that pointed to Jesus’ coming (Lev. 7:37). These laws also included the feast days, which ended at the cross.

Second, there were the civil laws, or “judgments.” These were based on the Ten Commandments and were used by Israel’s judges to convict or acquit in Israel’s court of law. Unlike the moral law, which was written by God Himself and kept in the ark of the covenant, these civil laws were written by Moses and placed beside it (Exod. 40:20; Deut. 31:26). They made the application of the Ten Commandments very practical so they could be used in Israel’s legal system.

Third and most important was the moral law, known as the Ten Commandments, that identified sin (Lev. 4:1, 2) and what loving God and others should look like. God wrote this law on stone with His own finger and it is therefore eternal and unchangeable. This is the law we will focus on in our study this week. God’s Ten Commandments can be read in Exodus 20:1–17. Ecclesiastes 12:13 says obeying this moral law is the “whole duty of man” (KJV). In other words, it isn’t just Israel’s duty to obey God’s moral law; it’s all humanity’s duty as well (cf. Rom. 3:31; James 2:10–12).

Here are the two vital functions of God’s moral law: First, by pointing out our sins, the moral law leads us to feel our need of repentance and a Savior (Rom. 3:20; 7:7; 1 John 3:4). In the first seven chapter of Leviticus we learn that when an Israelite realized he or she had broken the moral law of God, they were to make a sacrifice to God at the sanctuary so that they would be forgiven and restored to right standing with the Lord. The law clearly had a very important gospel function in Leviticus. The apostle Paul put it like this: “The law was our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith” (Gal. 3:24). Although the law itself provides no solution for sin, it does function as a mirror (James 1:23). It helps us see ourselves as God sees us.

The second function of the moral law is to show people how to treat God and each other. In fact, Leviticus goes out of its way to expound on the moral law to make it practical for everyday life. It’s true that there are some laws (i.e., civil or judgment laws) that do not fully apply to us today since they were created specifically for the nation of Israel, but even these laws contain principles found in the Ten Commandments that we can learn from.

Faith in Jesus and His righteousness is no excuse for breaking God’s commandments. The apostle Paul encourages God’s people to uphold His law: “Do we then make void the law through faith? Certainly not! On the contrary, we establish [uphold] the law” (Rom. 3:31). Without the Ten Commandments, Leviticus’ existence makes no sense—and neither does that of the gospel, for that matter. After all, if there is no law, there is no sin, and if there is no sin, there is no need of a Savior.

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How has Leviticus pointed out your sins?`

`How has Leviticus given your practical instruction on how to treat others and God?`