---
title:  Ten Promises
date:  25/09/2023
---

#### inTerpret

There are a lot of question that arise regarding God’s law in Leviticus, the most common of which is how to tell which laws are obsolete and which are still relevant to us today. This is a great question, and the answer is quite simple: If the New Testament supports it, it is still in effect today. For example, since the New Testament teaches that animal sacrifices ended with the death of Jesus, we do not practice animal sacrifices today (Col 2:14–17; Heb. 10:1–4), and since the New Testament does not condemn mixing two types of fabric in our clothing, neither do we condemn it. Pretty straightforward, isn’t it?

This simple understanding also applies to sins that required the death penalty in the book of Leviticus. Since the New Testament still calls them sins, we do today as well, but since the New Testament prescribed a different form of punishment (not capital punishment; 1 Cor. 5), we embrace part, but not the whole, of this type of commandment. However, we must never forget that ultimately, “the wages of sin” is still “death” (Rom. 6:23). The death penalty in Leviticus was a small type of the grand final judgment prophesied in the New Testament (Rev. 20:8), and this is why we must be quick to repent and put our faith in Chris. And for the record, all 10 of the commandments in Exodus 20 are found in the New Testament as well (Matt. 4:10; 12:34–37; 19:18, 19; Acts 17:29; Rom. 7:7; 13:9; Heb. 4:4, 9, 10).

Wanting just to preach Jesus and teach people to love is a noble and good desire. All who see the centrality Jesus will be happy to know that rightly teaching the law of God is teaching Jesus and His love! In fact, the law is not only a description of Christ’s character—it also defines true love. The first four commandments express love for God, and the last six express love for our fellow humans (Matt. 22:37–40). However, it’s hard to imagine someone trying to teach another what love is while simultaneously rejecting God’s definition of it. The end result of this is a false or sentimental form of love that reflects the world rather than the atmosphere of heaven, which is why we must keep God’s law in its entirety.

The argument that the old covenant was done away with at the cross may be the most persistent of all the objections to following the law as found in Leviticus and throughout Scripture, but rather than getting rid of the law, the new covenant simply relocates it. The law under the old covenant was written by God on tablets of stone, but the law of the new covenant is written by the Holy Spirit (God) on the heart (Heb. 10:16). This, of course, means that now, with the law written on our hearts, we can and should obey it even more fully! This is exactly what Paul meant in Romans 8:4 when he declared that the “righteous requirement of the law” can be “fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.”

Brace yourself: this next thought is pretty profound! Under the old covenant, the law of God is a list of good commandments, but under the new covenant, it is a list of good promises (Exod. 20:1–17): “I WILL keep the Sabbath holy”; “I WILL not steal”; “I WILL not kill”; “I WILL not commit adultery”; and on and on. Isn’t that a beautiful thought?

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are the implications of the commandments becoming promises under the new covenant? How does that affect our relationship with God?`