---
title:  The Net of the Law
date:  27/09/2023
---

#### inVite

Leviticus 26 is saturated in relational language (for example, vv. 25, 42). God wants His precious people to obey His commandments because they are built around the framework of a relationship. In other words, like a marriage relationship, which is a covenant, God wants His people to have a growing relationship with Him and to be faithful to Him alone because of that relationship.

God expresses His kindness throughout this chapter by offering opportunity after opportunity for His people to turn back to Him if they find that they have been unfaithful. Notice how often the phrase “and after all this, if . . .” or an equivalent is used (vv. 18, 21, 23, 27, 40–42, 44, 45). Although the intensity of the punishments for disobedience increases sevenfold (v. 24), the opportunities to confess and repent increase as well!

There are, of course, right and wrong ways to teach God’s law (1 Tim. 1:8). First, it is wrong to teach that obedience to His law can save us, because we know it cannot (Rom. 3:20; Gal. 2:16). Only faith in Jesus, who for us kept the law fully, can save us and assure us of eternal life (Eph. 2:8, 9). This is simply because all of us have already broken God’s law and are therefore already guilty and sentenced to death (Rom. 3:9; 6:23). Keep in mind that to break one law is to break them all (James 2:10). Second, it is also wrong to teach that those who have received Jesus as their Savior can continue to break God’s law and expect to be saved. This a very common deception and one that the apostle Paul specifically warned against (Rom. 3:8; 1 Cor. 6:9–11).

Victory over sin does not happen without preparation, strategy, and effort on our part, but the good news is that Jesus gives us both opportunities for repentance and the power through His Spirit to live righteous and holy lives even in a fallen world (Rom. 8:4). When we struggle, He offers forgiveness, and when we resist temptation, He enables us to win the victory (James 4:7, 8; 1 John 1:9; Rev. 12:11). We are all sinners in desperate need of God’s kindness, and He provided that kindness in the form of forgiveness for our sins and power to withstand temptation. Those who teach that we cannot overcome are in direct contradiction of the words of God Himself.

Perhaps the best way to illustrate this is the Golden Gate Bridge. Several lives were lost when construction first began, which delayed the project’s completion, but when they constructed a giant net to protect the workers from falling to their death, production increased, and the bridge was built much more quickly and safely. As we are working to build a Christian character that reflects the character of God as revealed in the law, we can have confidence that the blood of Jesus and His righteousness makes us eternally safe and saved!

**Meditate on Leviticus 26 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`How can we avoid taking advantage of God’s forgiveness and grace?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:``