---
title:  From Jerusalem to Babylon
date:   04/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

2 Kings 21:10–16; 2 Kings 24:18–20; Jeremiah 3:13; Daniel 1:7–21; Galatians 2:19, 20; Matthew 16:24–26; 2 Corinthians 4:17; Job 38:36; Proverbs 2:6; James 1:5.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “God gave these four young men the wisdom and ability [skill] to learn many different kinds [types] of writing and science. Daniel could also understand all kinds [types] of visions and dreams” (Daniel 1:17, ERV).

THE TRUE HERO of the book of Daniel is God. Be sure to remember that truth as we continue our study of Daniel. It is easy to think that the stories in Daniel are all about Daniel and his three friends. But God helps these four young men. He keeps them safe from the power of evil in Babylon. It is hard to stay loyal to God in our own land, right? But Daniel and his friends stay loyal to God in a foreign land. In Babylon, Daniel and his friends live with people who follow a different religion and a different way of life. Yes, these things make it hard, at times, for Daniel and his friends to follow God. But these things are a test of their faith. Daniel and his friends pass this test. They show to everyone that they “know Jesus” (2 Timothy 1:12, ICB). Jesus is the One they “have put [their] trust in” (2 Timothy 1:12, ERV).

Daniel and his friends show everyone that they know Jesus.