---
title:  God Is In Control
date:   05/01/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

How does the book of Daniel start? Not so good. Things look bad for God’s people. The kingdom of Judah loses the war against King Nebuchadnezzar. Then Nebuchadnezzar steals the holy treasures from God’s temple. Nebuchadnezzar takes the treasures back to the land of Shinar. Where have we seen the word “Shinar” before? In Genesis 11:2. This verse shows us that the tower of Babel is in Shinar. The men in Shinar turned against God. Then they tried to build a tower that reaches heaven. They failed. Now King Nebuchadnezzar comes from Shinar many hundreds of years later. He beats God’s people in war. So, it looks as if Nebuchadnezzar and his gods are stronger than the God of Israel.

But is Nebuchadnezzar’s god stronger than our God? Look closely at the opening verses of the book of Daniel. You will see the real reason that Nebuchadnezzar wins. Yes, God’s people lose the war to Nebuchadnezzar. But Nebuchadnezzar does not win because he is stronger. He wins only because “the Lord allowed Nebuchadnezzar to defeat [beat] Jehoiakim king of Judah” (Daniel 1:2, ERV). Why does God let Nebuchadnezzar win? Many years earlier, God warned His people. He told them what would happen if they break His Special Agreement. His people would become prisoners. Now Daniel sees God’s Word coming true. So, Daniel knows that God is in control of everything. God is in charge of Babylon’s army and all history. This understanding gives Daniel and his friends courage. It helps their faith stay strong in Babylon.

`Why does God put Judah and Jerusalem under Babylon’s control? For the answer, read 2 Kings 21:10–16; 2 Kings 24:18–20; and Jeremiah 3:13.`

The book of Daniel shows us a powerful picture of God. The God we serve controls history. He is very strong. But He also loves to show His people mercy. He helps us in times of need. As we will see, evil men try to hurt Daniel and his friends. Why? Because Daniel and his friends obey God. So, God saves Daniel and his friends. God will do the same thing for His people in the end times.

`Why can we trust God to save us when we are in need?`

The men in Shinar try to build a tower that reaches heaven.
