---
title: Faith That Does Not Break
date: 12/30/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the experience of Daniel and his friends in Daniel 1. What trouble are they in? What makes it hard for them to stay loyal to God at this time?`

Daniel and his friends arrive in Babylon. Soon after the young men arrive, God gives them a big test. This test shows what is in the young men’s hearts. The Babylonians give Daniel and his friends special training. Then the young men will be able to serve the king. In those days, kings often chose some of their best prisoners to serve in the royal palace. The kings wanted their prisoners to become loyal to them and worship their gods. As part of that plan, the Babylonians give Daniel and his friends new names. The new names show that Daniel and his friends now belong to Babylon. The Hebrew names of Daniel and his friends show their faith in the God of Israel. The Babylonians want to change that. So, they give Daniel and his friends new names that honor their gods. Then, the king orders the young men to eat the food served at his table. When a person eats from a king’s table, it shows he is loyal to the king. Often, the food is offered to gods first. So, what happens if Daniel and his friends eat that same food? They show that they worship the king’s gods and accept his religion.

So, Daniel and his friends are in big trouble. How can they stay loyal to God and serve the king at the same time? Only a miracle can save these young men. What makes this problem worse? Babylon is a picture of human power and glory. It is filled with beautiful temples and famous gardens. The Euphrates River flows down the middle of the city. The king offers Daniel and his friends the chance to live good lives if they do what he wants. Then the young men can stop being Hebrew slaves. They can become royal leaders. Will the young men give up their beliefs? Will they choose to walk on the easy road to success?

`What reasons do you think these young men have for giving up their beliefs? In what way do you find yourself in this same experience?`

The king orders Daniel and his three friends to eat the food served at his table.
