---
title: A Firm Decision
date: 1/7/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 1:7–21. What happens in these verses? What important rule do we see here?`

The four young Hebrew prisoners do not refuse their new Babylonian names. Really, what can they do about that? Not much. But they can do something about the food and the wine from the king’s table. The four young men have free choice. They can decide what they will eat or drink. Their free choice is a very important part of the story.

The man in charge of the four young men changes their names. So, he can change the menu too. Daniel and his friends hope that he will change their meals for two reasons. (1) The meals from the king’s table may include food that is not clean (read Leviticus 11). (2) The holy leaders in Babylon offer the food to statues of their gods. Then the holy leaders send the food to the king to eat. So, Daniel tells the man in charge why he and his friends do not want to eat the king’s food. Daniel is very brave. He does not lie about his reasons. He clearly says that he and his friends want to honor the God of Israel (Daniel 1:8).

Let us look at some more important parts of this story. (1) We see that Daniel understands the danger. The man in charge will be in danger if he helps Daniel and his friends. So, Daniel comes up with a test. Daniel and his friends will eat healthy food for ten days. Then the officer can see if the food Daniel and his friends eat harms them or is safe. (2) Daniel is very sure that his plan will work. Ten days is a short time. But Daniel trusts in God. So, Daniel knows his plan will be a success. (3)Daniel chooses to eat fruit and vegetables. This food plan matches the diet God gave Adam and Eve (read Genesis 1:29). What diet could be better than that?

Daniel has free choice. How does his choice open the way for God to help him (read Daniel 1:9)? What does Daniel teach us about why we need to make good choices? How does our trust in God help us to make good choices?

Daniel chooses to eat only fruit and vegetables for ten days.
