---
title: Perfect And Wise
date: 1/1/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

King Nebuchadnezzar chooses Daniel and his friends to serve in the royal palace. The king has strict rules about who can work for him. His servants must be “healthy” (Daniel 1:4, NIrV). They also must be “good-looking” (Daniel 1:4, NLV). God made these same rules about offerings and workers in His temple. There must not be anything wrong with them (Leviticus 22:17–25; Leviticus 21:16–24). This information helps us to understand an important idea. Daniel and his friends are the same as living gifts to God in Babylon.

`Is it possible for us to stay loyal to God at all times? For the answer, read Galatians 2:19, 20; Matthew 16:24–26; and 2 Corinthians 4:17.`

God honors Daniel and his friends. At the end of their ten-day test, how do they look? They look a lot better than the students who eat the king’s food! So, God rewards Daniel and his friends. “God gave these four young men the wisdom and ability [skill] to learn many different kinds [types] of writing and science. Daniel could also understand all kinds [types] of visions and dreams” (Daniel 1:17, ERV). Later on, Daniel’s gift will be an important part of his work as God’s special messenger.

God gives us wisdom too. He helps us solve life’s problems. The experience of Daniel and his friends teaches us that we can stay holy and true to God in this life. Daniel’s story shows us we do not need to run away from life to serve God better. Daniel and his friends live in a land filled with lies. People all around Daniel believe in those lies. But Daniel and his friends stay loyal to God.

We meet with trouble in life the same as Daniel and his friends did. All around us are people who do not believe Bible truth. What are some of the lies and bad things you see in the way of life around you? Do you fight against these things? Or do you go along with them?

Daniel and his friends look a lot better than the students who eat the king’s food.
