---
title: Final Exam
date: 1/9/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about Daniel and his friends in Daniel 1:17–21. What is the reason for their success? (For the answer, read also Job 38:36; Proverbs 2:6; and James 1:5.)`

Daniel and his friends study at the “University of Babylon” for three years. Then they meet with the king for their final exam. Daniel and his friends look very healthy. They look much better than the other students. Daniel and his friends are smarter too. They have more knowledge and wisdom. Of course, they must study Babylon’s ideas and religion. Daniel and his friends learn this knowledge well, too, even if they do not believe it.

The king may think that his food and training are the reasons for the success of Daniel and his friends. But Daniel and his friends know the truth. Their success comes from God. The experience of Daniel and his friends is a powerful example. Their story shows us what God can do for His people when they trust Him. So, we should not fear anyone. People may try to hurt us because of our faith. Yes, government leaders, TV, newspapers, and other groups have a lot of power. They may try to destroy us because of our beliefs. But we are God’s children. We have put our trust in Him. So, we can be sure that God will take care of us in times of trouble. The important thing to remember is for us to make good choices during those hard times.

Daniel 1 teaches us some very important lessons about God. (1) God controls history. (2) God gives us wisdom. He helps us make the right choices in times of trouble. (3) God honors the people who trust Him.

Daniel 1 ends with this verse: “So Daniel served the king until the first year that Cyrus was king” (Daniel 1:21, ERV). Cyrus is the king of Persia. God chooses Cyrus to free the Jews from Babylon. Cyrus allows God’s people to go back home to Jerusalem. Yes, things do not look so good for the Jews at the beginning of Daniel chapter 1. But by the end of the chapter, we see hope. Yes, we will have hard times in life. We will suffer and feel pain. But God always brings hope to our lives. He helps us to see the joy and glory that wait for us when our suffering is over.

After three years, Daniel and his friends stand in front of the king for their final exam.
