---
title: Additional Thought
date: 1/3/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

“Daniel and his friends are young. They are prisoners. They are forced to go to Babylon. There, they have many hard experiences. These experiences are tests that show what is in their hearts and minds. You may think that Daniel and his friends have an easier life than Joseph had during his early years in Egypt. But Daniel and his friends have tests and experiences that are just as difficult as Joseph’s. Daniel and his friends come from the royal family in Judah. The Babylonians take Daniel and his friends to the most powerful city on earth. There they serve in the court of its king. The king chooses them to serve him. He gives them special training.

“The king’s court is filled with riches and beauty. It also is full of sin. The chance to sin is all around Daniel and his friends. On top of that, the Babylonians make life hard for Daniel and his friends. They brag about winning the war against the Jews. The Jews are their prisoners in Babylon, right? King Nebuchadnezzar took the treasures from God’s temple too. He put them in the temple of his gods. The king of Israel is a prisoner in Babylon too. The Babylonians brag about all these things. They say that these things are proof that shows their religion and way of life are better. Daniel and his friends must live with this shame. Yes, God’s people cause their own suffering and shame. At the same time, God uses this awful experience to teach Babylon a lesson. God alone is in control. His law is holy. His commandments must be obeyed. God shows the Babylonians what will happen when people obey His law. God gives this message to Daniel and his friends. They are God’s loyal servants. God chooses them to speak for Him because they are loyal. It is the only way God works.” —Ellen G. White, Education, page 54, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. What are some of the ways of life around us that make our church weak? What should we do to stay strong?`

`2. The Babylonians feel that their gods are stronger than the God of Israel. What truth do you think helps Daniel and his friends stay strong at this time? Why is it so important to know Bible truth?`

`3. Why do we need to show our faith to the people we serve and wish to save? How does our faith show other people who God is?`

“King Nebuchadnezzar took the treasures from God’s temple. . . . He put them in the temple of his gods.”
