---
title:  People In The Bible Who Woke Up From The Dead
date:  22/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Jude 1:9; Luke 9:28–36; 1 Kings 17:8–24; 2 Kings 4:18–37; Luke 7:11–17; Mark 5:21–24, 35–43; John 11:1–44.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Jesus said to her, ‘I am the One Who raises [wakes people up from] the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies’ ” (John 11:25, 26, NLV).

So far, we studied about people in the Old Testament who believed in the resurrection (Job 19:25–27; Hebrews 11:17–19; Psalm 49:15; Psalm 71:20). The resurrection is the promise that Jesus will wake up people from the dead at His Second Coming. These Old Testament people trusted in God’s promises about the resurrection (Daniel 12:1, 2, 13).

The Bible also tells us about people who woke up from the dead before Jesus died on the cross. Moses is the first person in the Bible who woke up from the dead (Jude 1:9; Luke 9:28–36). During the time that Israel was a kingdom, the son of the widow of Zarephath (1 Kings 17:8–24) and the Shunammite’s son (2 Kings 4:18–37) woke up from the dead. Jesus woke up the widow of Nain’s son (Luke 7:11–17). Jesus also resurrected or woke up Jairus’s daughter (Luke 8:40–56) and Lazarus (John 11). All these people, except Moses, later died again. All these stories teach us that our spirits don’t continue to live after our bodies die (Job 3:11–13; Psalm 115:17; Psalm 146:4; Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10).

This week, we will look at resurrections in the Bible that happened before Jesus died on the cross.