---
title:  Moses Wakes Up From The Dead 
date:  23/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Jude 1:9 and Luke 9:28–36. What proof do these verses give us that Moses had a body when he woke up from the dead?`

Jude tells us, “Michael the chief angel had a quarrel with the devil about who should have the body of Moses” (Jude 1:9, WE). Michael, of course, is Jesus Himself. Do you see that Jesus and Satan are fighting over Moses’ body? They do not argue over who should get Moses’ spirit. Their quarrel about “the body of Moses” is proof that Moses has a body when he wakes up from the dead.

Deuteronomy 34:5–7 tells us that Moses died when he was 120 years old. The Lord buried Moses in a secret place in a valley in the land of Moab. But Moses did not stay in the grave for long. “Jesus Himself came down from heaven with His angels. These were the angels that helped Jesus bury Moses after he died. Jesus woke up Moses from the dead. . . . For the first time, Jesus was about to give life to someone who died. Jesus is the Prince of Life. When Jesus and His shining angels approached the grave, Satan felt afraid. Satan was scared that he was going to lose his control over sinners. . . . Jesus didn’t argue with Satan. . . . Jesus showed that His Father in heaven was in full control when He said to Satan, ‘ “May the Lord judge you!” ’ Jude 1:9, [NIrV]. . . . Jesus showed that He can wake the dead. Satan lost his control over sinners. Jesus showed that His saved ones will live again.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 478, 479, adapted.

The Bible gives us more proof that Jesus woke up Moses from the dead. Luke tells us about the time that Jesus took Peter, James, and John up a mountain to pray (read Luke 9:28–36). While Jesus prayed, Peter, James, and John saw Jesus’ glory. Jesus’ face changed and His clothes became shining white. “Then two men were there, talking with him. They were Moses and Elijah. They also looked bright and glorious [shining]. They were talking with Jesus about his death that would happen in Jerusalem” (Luke 9:30, 31, ERV). Moses’ being there with Jesus is proof that Jesus will win the war over sin and death. We see that Moses and Elijah, and not their “spirits,” appear to Jesus on the mountain. (Remember also that Elijah never died. God took Elijah to heaven. So, Elijah’s being there with Jesus also shows us that we will have bodies when God takes us to heaven.)