---
title:  Two More Old Testament Examples
date:  24/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about the resurrections in 1 Kings 17:8–24 and 2 Kings 4:18–37. As we saw already in lesson 4, resurrection is a time when God wakes up people from the dead. What is the same about the two stories in these verses? What is different?`

In Hebrews 11, we read that “because some women had faith . . . they received [got] their dead back to life” (Hebrews 11:35, NLV). 1 Kings 17:8–24 and 2 Kings 4:18–37 show us stories about women whose sons died. Both women had faith in God. So, God woke up their sons from the dead and gave them back to their mothers.

The first story happened during the time when almost everyone in Israel stopped worshiping God (read 1 Kings 17:8–24). Ahab and his wife Jezebel controlled Israel at the time. God punished Israel by not letting any rain fall on the land for a long time. During this time, God commanded Elijah to go to Zarephath. Zarephath was a town outside of Israel. There, Elijah met a widow. She had enough food for one final meal for herself and her son. Then they would have no food left. But God gave them a miracle. He gave the widow much flour and oil. The flour and oil did not run out until the rain came. But after the miracle, something sad happened. The widow’s son got sick and died. The widow asked Elijah to help her. Elijah cried out to the Lord. “The Lordord answered Elijah’s prayer. He [the Lordord] gave the boy’s life back to him. So the boy lived” (1 Kings 17:22, NIrV).

The second story happened in Shunem (read 2 Kings 4:18–37). Shunem was a small village south of Mount Gilboa. There, Elisha met a married woman who had no children. Elisha told her that she was going to have a son. She did. The child grew and was healthy. But then the boy got sick and died. The Shunammite woman went to Mount Carmel. The woman asked Elisha to come see her son. Elisha went with her and prayed to the Lord for the child. God answered Elisha’s prayer. The child woke up from the dead.

These women had different religions. But they both had the same saving faith. The widow of Zarephath fed Elijah at a time when there was not any safe place for him in Israel. The Shunammite woman and her husband built a special room in their house for Elisha. These mothers asked the men of God to help them when their children died. Then the mothers were glad when their sons woke up from the dead.