---
title:  The Son Of The Widow Of Nain 
date:  25/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible says that Jesus “ ‘went everywhere doing good for people. He healed those [people] who were ruled [controlled] by the devil, showing that God was with him’ ” (Acts 10:38, ERV). The Bible is filled with stories about Jesus and how He helped many people who were hurting and in need. Later, many Jews accepted Jesus as their Savior because of all the good things Jesus did.

“Jesus visited many villages. He healed all the people who were sick there. Jesus’ healing work was proof that God chose Him as our Savior. Jesus did everything with love and mercy in His heart. Jesus cared for people. Jesus wanted to serve people and take care of their needs. So, He became the same as the people that He came to save. People that nobody cared about and the poor were not afraid to come to Jesus. Little children loved to be near Jesus, too.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 11, 12, adapted.

`Read about the resurrection in Luke 7:11–17. As we know, the resurrection is the time when a person wakes up from the dead. Compare the resurrection in Luke 7:11–17 to the resurrections we studied yesterday. How is the resurrection in Luke different?`

Jesus healed the sick and cast out demons from people. When Jesus and His followers approached the city of Nain, they saw a crowd on their way to a funeral. Some of the people in the crowd carried a dead body in a coffin. The coffin was open. The only son of a widow lay inside the coffin. The widow cried very hard. Jesus felt very sorry for the sad mother. Jesus said to the woman, “ ‘Don’t cry’ ” (Luke 7:13, ERV). Then Jesus “walked to the open coffin and touched it. The men who were carrying the coffin stopped. Jesus spoke to the dead son: ‘Young man, I tell you, get up!’ ” (Luke 7:14, ERV). The whole story changed because Jesus was there. Many people who saw the miracle happen knew that Someone special was among them. So, the people said that Jesus was a “ ‘great [powerful] Man’ ” (Luke 7:16, NLV). The people believed that God sent Jesus to show that He cared for His people very much.

Both the widow of Zarephath and the Shunammite woman asked for help from God’s servants. But the widow of Nain got help without asking for it. God cares for us even when we don’t feel we are worthy enough to ask Him for help.