---
title:  Jairus’s Daughter 
date:  26/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Jairus’s daughter in Mark 5:21–24, 35–43. What do we learn about death from Jesus’ words, “ ‘This child isn’t dead. She is only sleeping’ ” (Mark 5:39, ERV)?`

Jairus’s 12-year-old daughter was very sick at home. So, Jairus went to Jesus and asked Him to heal his daughter. Jairus wanted Jesus to come to his house and touch her. But before Jairus and Jesus got to the house, some men brought Jairus the sad news. “ ‘Your daughter is dead. There is no need to bother the Teacher’ ” (Mark 5:35, ERV). Jesus heard this sad news. He said to Jairus, “ ‘Don’t be afraid; just believe’ ” (Mark 3:36, ERV). Jairus must trust that Jesus could save his little girl after she was already dead.

Jairus and Jesus arrived at Jairus’s home. Many people filled the house. Then “Jesus entered the house and said to the people, ‘Why are you crying and making so much noise? This child is not dead. She is only asleep’ ” (Mark 5:39, ICB). The people made fun of Jesus. Why? (1) They knew that the little girl was dead. And (2) they didn’t understand the meaning of Jesus’ words. “Jesus’ favorite word picture for ‘death’ was ‘sleep’ [read Matthew 9:24; Luke 8:52; also read John 11:11–15]. Death is a very deep sleep. Only God can wake us from this sleep. God is the powerful Life-Giver. Only He can give life to the dead and make them live again. (Read Revelation 1:18; also read John 3:16; Romans 6:23).”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 5, page 609, adapted.

Jesus woke up Jairus’s daughter from the dead. Then the little girl’s parents and Jesus’ followers “were very much surprised and wondered about it” (Mark 5:42, NLV). We can see why, right? For now, death is the end of life. Worse, death is final. We can’t reverse it. So, when Jesus’ followers and the little girl’s parents see her wake up from the dead, they witness a miracle with their own eyes. For sure, this miracle changed their lives.

Review Jesus’ words to Jairus: “ ‘Don’t be afraid; just believe’ ” (Mark 5:36, ERV). How can we learn to believe when we are afraid? Why is the time that we are afraid the most important time to keep believing?