---
title:  Lazarus 
date:  27/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read John 11:1–44. How will the sickness and death of Lazarus “ ‘bring honor to God’ ” and honor to “ ‘the Son of God’ ” also (John 11:4, NLV)?`

As we saw, Jesus liked to use the word “sleep” to talk about “death.” When Jesus heard that Lazarus was sick, He said, “ ‘Our friend Lazarus is now sleeping, but I am going there to wake him’ ” (John 11:11, ERV). Some of Jesus’ followers thought that Jesus meant Lazarus was asleep in bed (John 11:11–13). But Jesus explained: “ ‘Lazarus is dead’ ” (John 11:14, NIV). When Jesus arrived in Bethany, Lazarus already was dead four days. His dead body was rotting (John 11:17, 39). When a dead body starts to stink, people know the person is dead.

Then Jesus says to Martha, “ ‘Your brother will rise [wake up from the dead] and be alive again’ ” (John 11:23, ERV). Martha tells Jesus that she believes in the final resurrection. The final resurrection is the time when God will wake up His people from the dead at the Second Coming. But Jesus announces to Martha, “ ‘I am the One Who raises [wakes up people from] the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies. Anyone who lives and has put his trust in Me will never die. Do you believe this?’ ” (John 11:23–26, NLV). Jesus added, “ ‘Didn’t I tell you that if you believe, you will see God’s glory [His life-giving power]?’ ” (John 11:40, NIrV). Martha believed. She saw God’s glory in Jesus when He resurrected or woke Lazarus up from the dead.

The Bible says that God made all life (Genesis 1:20–30; Psalm 33:6). By His command, God can make life new again. That’s what happened with Lazarus. After a short prayer, Jesus commanded, “ ‘Lazarus, come out!’ ” (John 11:43, NIrV). When the crowd saw Lazarus walk out of the grave, they saw that Jesus could make people live. Jesus had the same power as God. With this same power, Jesus made our earth. With this same power, Jesus will wake up the dead at His Second Coming. When Jesus woke up Lazarus, Jesus gave proof that He controls death. Do we need more proof that God is powerful?

`Read Jesus’ words in John 11:25, 26. What is Jesus teaching us about His believers? Why do Jesus’ words give us so much hope?`