---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Death of Moses,” pages 469–480, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “The Voice of Stern Rebuke,” pages 129–142; “A Prophet of Peace,” pages 235–243, in Prophets and Kings; “The Centurion,” pages 318, 319; “The Touch of Faith,” pages 342, 343; “ ‘Lazarus, Come Forth,’ ” pages 524–536, in The Desire of Ages.

“In Jesus is life. This life is not made or borrowed from something else. ‘Whoever has the Son has life. But the person who does not have the Son of God does not have life.’ 1 John 5:12, [ICB]. Jesus is God. As God, Jesus can give us everlasting life. Jesus said, ‘He who believes in me will have life even if he dies. And he who lives and believes in me will never die. Martha, do you believe this?’ In these verses [John 11:25, 26, ICB], Jesus looks to the future when He will wake up the dead at the Second Coming. Then God’s people will be changed and given new bodies. God will take the living to heaven. They will not die. But for now, Jesus is about to wake up Lazarus from the dead. This miracle is a promise that shows that Jesus will wake up all the saved ones from the grave. By His word and His works, Jesus announced that He is the One who gives life to the dead. Soon Jesus will die on the cross. But before He dies, Jesus showed that He had control over the grave. He showed that He can give everlasting life.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 530, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We die the same as living things: chickens, beavers, oysters, and so on. We know that we will die (read Ecclesiastes 9:5). But animals don’t know that they will die. Why is the promise of the resurrection, or the promise that God will wake us up from the dead, so important to us?`

`Many Christians and other people think that they will live  in heaven after they die. Why is this idea wrong? Is there any need for a resurrection if everyone goes to heaven after they die? Explain.`