---
title:  A Storybook of Grace
date:  09/04/2023
---

#### inGest

When most people think about the Bible’s last book, Revelation, they do not think about God’s grace. When they consider God’s last-day message, their thoughts often turn immediately to frightening beasts, mystic symbols, and strange images. The book of Revelation scares as many people as it reassures, which is unfortunate because it is indeed saturated with grace and filled with hope. Even amid the scary beasts and warnings of persecution and hard times ahead, God still gives us reasons to rejoice in His salvation.

Revelation is all about Jesus. It is His message to His people and is especially applicable to His church in the last days. It is a grace-filled message of our end-time hope. Throughout the book Christ is described as the slain Lamb, and a blessing is promised to those who read, under-stand, and act on the truths revealed.

According to Revelation 1:5, 6, Jesus is the one who has “loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood, and has made us kings and priests to His God and Father.” In Christ we are forgiven. Grace pardons our past, empowers our present, and provides hope for our future. In Christ we are delivered from sin’s penalty and power, and one day soon we will be delivered from sin’s presence. This is the message of the last book of the Bible.

It is also an urgent message, first depicted as an angel flying swiftly in midheaven carrying the “everlasting gospel.” No wonder, then, that they are grace-filled messages full of hope and promise for us as broken and suffering beings! Though it’s easy to focus on the beasts and warnings of the last days, how can we learn to balance all these out with what is undeniably the most important message of Revelation: Christ’s self-sacrificing death in our behalf?

These messages of hope and grace are also the story of a Savior’s immeasurable love; the story of Jesus, who loves us so much that He would rather experience hell itself than have one of us lost. They are the story of a boundless, incomprehensible, undying, infinite love.

God is never caught by surprise. He is not subject to the changing winds of humanity’s choices. As we have already seen, His plan to deliver us from the domain of sin was not an afterthought. God was not caught off guard by the awful drama of sin when it reared its ugly head for the first time.

The phrase “everlasting gospel” in Revelation 14:6 speaks of the past, the present, and the future. When God created humanity with the capacity to make moral choices, He anticipated that they would make errant ones. Once His creatures had the capacity to choose, they had the capacity to rebel against His loving nature. The only way to avoid this reality would be to create robot beings controlled and manipulated by some divine cosmic plan. Forced allegiance is contrary to God’s very nature. Love requires choice, and once beings are given the power of choice, the possibility of making wrong decisions exists. God had therefore conceived the plan of salvation before our first parents’ rebellion in Eden. As Ellen White puts it: “The plan for our redemption was not an afterthought, a plan formulated after the fall of Adam. It was a revelation of ‘the mystery which hath been kept in silence through times eternal.’ Romans 16:25, R.V. It was an unfolding of the principles that from eternal ages have been the foundation of God’s throne” (The Desire of Ages [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1898, 1940], p. 22).

The “eternal gospel” speaks not only of the past and present; it is the basis of a future with hope. It speaks of living eternally with the One whose heart is aching to be with us forever.

Journal:

`How is grace more than just forgiveness? How is grace more than transformative power?`

`What are some areas in your life that demonstrate God’s grace?`

` `