---
title:  A Global Movement
date:  10/04/2023
---

#### inTerpret

According to the urgent, end-time message of the first of these three angels, the “everlasting gospel” is to be proclaimed to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people. Here is a mission so grand and comprehensive that it is all-consuming. It demands our best effort and requires our total commitment. It leads us from a preoccupation with our own self-interest to a passion for Christ’s service. It inspires us with something larger than ourselves and leads us out of the narrow confines of our own minds to a grander vision.

In his book A Quest for More: Living for Something Bigger Than You Paul David Tripp discusses the psychological need of every human being to be part of something larger than themselves, describing it in an interview as follows: “Human beings were created to be part of something bigger than their own lives. Sin causes us to shrink our lives down to the size of our lives. The grace of Christ is given to rescue us from the claustrophobic confines of our own little self-focused kingdom and frees us to live for the eternal purposes and satisfying delights of the kingdom of God” (“Living for Something Bigger Than Yourself,” interview by the B&B Media Group, The Christian Broadcasting Network [n.d.], www.cbn.com/entertainment/books/questformore.aspx?mobile=false&u=1&option=print).

There is nothing more inspiring, more fulfilling, or more rewarding than being part of a divine movement, raised up by God to accomplish a task far larger than any one human being could ever accomplish on their own. The heavenly commission described in Revelation 14 is the greatest task ever assigned to God’s church. What could be bigger than being used by the Creator of the cosmos to make an eternal difference in the universe? It is an earnest appeal to commit our lives to heaven’s grandest task: revealing God’s incomprehensible love to the world before Jesus’ return.

Through a perceptive, deep study of the Bible, the early Adventists gained a growing understanding of the significance of these messages. They sensed that God had a message tailor-made for this generation—an urgent end-time message that must be proclaimed to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people to prepare the world for Christ’s return. The messages of the three angels have been the motivation for Adventist missions since their beginning.

In 1874 the General Conference sent our first missionary to Europe. Ellen White called John Andrews “the ablest man in our ranks.” Andrews spoke at least seven languages, could repeat the New Testament from memory, and knew most of the Old Testament. He was a brilliant scholar, a prolific writer, a powerful preacher, and a competent theologian.

Why send a man like that to a place where there were very few believers? Why send “the ablest man” you had to an unknown mission field? And why was he willing to go? His wife had died a few years earlier. Why would he be willing to leave family and friends behind in America and sail with his two children to an unknown land, risking all for the cause of Christ?

There is only one reason: He believed that Jesus is coming soon, that the message of end-time truth must go to the entire world, and that it must not be delayed any longer.

Throughout our history our brightest and our best have traveled to the ends of the earth to proclaim God’s last-day message. They were teachers, medical personnel, pastors, farmers, mechanics, carpenters, and tradesmen of all types. Some were denominational employees, but many were not. They were laypeople who believed Jesus is coming soon.

The preaching of the everlasting gospel leaps across geographical boundaries. It penetrates earth’s remotest areas. It reaches people of every language and culture. It will eventually impact the entire world. How fascinating to know that our message has so far reached more than 210 of the world’s 235 countries recognized by the United Nations.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? Which parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What role could you play, and how could you better play it, in helping spread the three angels’ messages to every “nation, tribe, tongue, and people”?`

` `