---
title:  The “Everlasting” Gospel
date:  12/04/2023
---

#### inVite

Notice what Revelation 14:6, the beginning of the three angels’ messages, begins with: the “eternal” or “everlasting” gospel. If we fail to understand the depth of the gospel, we will miss the entire point of the three angels’ messages. We can never fully understand the issues in God’s judgment-hour message, the fall of Babylon, or the mark of the beast if we do not understand the gospel.

The gospel is the incredibly good news of Christ’s death for our sins, His glorious resurrection, and His ever-present love and concern for us. By faith in His shed blood and resurrection, we are delivered from both sin’s penalty and power. Christ consumed the apostle Paul’s thoughts and was at the center of his teaching and preaching. The crucified Christ redeemed him from the condemnation and guilt of his past. The resurrected Christ gave him power for the present, and the returning Christ gave him hope for the future. And, praise God, He does the same for us.

Christ’s grace is undeserved and unearned. Jesus died the agonizing death that lost sinners will die. He experienced the fullness of the Father’s wrath, or judgment, against sin. He was rejected so that we could be accepted. He died the death that was ours so that we can live the life that was His.

This plan, the plan of salvation, was put in place even before the beginning of time (2 Tim. 1:9, Titus 1:2, Eph. 1:4), which helps explain why it is called the “everlasting” gospel. God knew what would happen before the world had even been created, so He instituted the plan of salvation to meet the crisis head-on.

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 14:6 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How does the plan of salvation bring you wonder and awe? If it doesn’t, why not?`

`What works can humanity possibly add, even by the best-intentioned, Holy Spirit-filled works, to what Christ had done for us at the cross?`

` `