---
title:  Doing What God Wants You to Do
date:   21/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Colossians 4:7–15; Ephesians 6:21; 2 Peter 3:10–14; Isaiah 60:1–3.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Whatever may happen to you, con­tinue to thank God. God wants you to do that, because you belong to Christ Jesus” (1 Thessalonians 5:18, EASY).

This week, we study the final part of Paul’s letter to the Colossian church. We will learn more about Paul’s work partners. The book of Acts shows Paul working first with Barnabas, then with Silas. Then Acts gives us an outline of Paul’s three trips to share the Good News about Jesus.

This week, we will look at Paul’s plan to preach the Good News. Paul’s plan was to share the Good News about Jesus in the most important cities in the Kingdom of Rome. Paul also wanted to train people to be Bible workers. Paul sent these workers to the cities and towns he didn’t visit. Some of those places included Colossae, Laodicea, and Hierapolis.

Anywhere Paul traveled, he always connected people with churches. Paul understood that the people must work ­together: Jews and non-Jews, men and women, and church members with Bible workers. These workers included Tychicus, Aristarchus, Justus, Epaphras, Luke, and Nympha. In the final part of Paul’s letter to the Colossians, we learn about a letter he wrote to Laodicea. This letter was lost. Paul puts a lot of information into his final verses. He also includes some advice to a man named Archippus. Paul did everything he could to make the churches strong.