---
title:  Lessons on Sharing the Good News
date:   22/03/2026
---

We learn much from Paul about sharing the Good News about Jesus. Paul traveled about 13,400 miles. This information is amazing because Paul made most of this journey on foot! Some of the time Paul also was in jail.

Paul spent a lot of time in cities, including Corinth and Ephesus. These cities were business centers. Paul sent Bible workers from these centers out to small towns. These workers shared the Good News about Jesus with the people in these small towns. Paul also visited the churches he started. Paul wanted to help the faith of the new Christians in these churches. When Paul couldn’t visit the churches himself, he sent letters. This way, church members knew that he remembered and cared about them.

`Read Colossians 4:7–9. Compare with Ephesians 6:21. What does Paul say in these verses about Tychicus? What reasons does Paul give for sending Tychicus and Onesimus to Colossae?`

We don’t know what news Tychicus and Onesimus shared with the Colossians. From Paul’s words, we can tell that the news was meant to give them hope (Colossians 4:7–9). Tychicus and Onesimus may have shared news about Paul’s time in jail. This communication between Paul and the churches was important. Paul’s letters helped to connect church members together.

Tychicus’s name means “a lucky chance.” Paul trusted Tychicus. Paul says that Tychicus was a loyal preacher and worker. Paul chose him and one other person from Asia (Acts 20:4) to go with him on his journey to Jerusalem. Paul and these two men brought an offering with them for poor Christians in the city. Tychicus also was with Paul during his second time in jail in Rome. Then Paul sent Tychicus to Ephesus to help the church there (2 Timothy 4:12). Paul also thought about sending Tychicus to Titus, in Crete (Titus 3:12). Onesimus also traveled with Tychicus. Onesimus became a Christian in Rome after he met Paul (read Lesson 1). Paul also says Onesimus was a loyal Christian.

Paul also wanted to know about the lives of Christians in Colossae. The church could easily send someone back to Paul with a message. In this way, Paul shared his love for Christians and helped their faith to grow strong in Jesus.