---
title:  Staying Connected
date:   23/03/2026
---

Today, we have the internet, phones, and computers to help us stay connected. So, we may have a hard time trying to imagine in our minds how Paul helped church members feel that they were part of something bigger than their local churches.

`Paul sent Bible workers to the churches. The Bible workers carried news from Paul. Then they brought news back to Paul from the churches (Colossians 4:7–9). What other ways did Paul encourage church members to connect with each other? What greetings did Paul send? What message did those greetings also contain? Read Colossians 4:10, 11 for the answers.`

With these greetings, Paul helps church members connect and stay connected with each other. Paul shares news about his fellow workers. We learn from these verses that Mark was Barnabas’s cousin. Mark may have gone to Colossae. Paul makes Mark’s trip possible. Aristarchus was in jail with Paul. They were both soldiers for Jesus. They put on God’s battle suit, the same as clothes (Ephesians 6:10, 11). Together, Paul and Aristarchus worked to help people escape from Satan’s power. Then they taught these people to serve the Kingdom of God (read 2 Timothy 2:1–4). Paul also praises Justus. Justus is someone that people can trust to work for God. They can trust Justus to share with them the Good News about Jesus.

Paul also says that Aristarchus, Mark, and Justus are Jewish Christians. Then Paul talks about three non-­Jewish Christians: Epaphras, Luke, and Demas (Colossians 4:12–14). Yes, there were some problems in the church between Jewish Christians and non-Jewish Christians. But Paul shows us that these Jewish and non-Jewish men worked together in peace and love. Paul also is sad that more Jewish Christians haven’t joined him in his work. At that time, John Mark was with Paul. Some years ago, John Mark left Paul and Barnabas on their first trip to share the Good News (Acts 13:13). But now Paul trusts John Mark very much. John Mark gives Paul hope (Acts 15:36–40).

Satan works to destroy peace in God’s church. As our church grows worldwide, it often changes in many ways. During these changes, Satan attacks the church. Satan tries to destroy our work for peace in ways that hurt us all.