---
title:  Stand Perfect and Complete in Jesus
date:   24/03/2026
---

Paul’s life and work for God showed that he had a plan (read Philippians 3:13, 14). Paul’s fellow workers and Jesus’ followers had this plan, too. They planned to share the Good News about Jesus everywhere in the Kingdom of Rome and elsewhere and to do this work fast (Colossians 1:23). We need to work with the same energy and strength today.

`Read Colossians 4:12, 13. What plan do we read about in these verses? How does Paul get this plan done?`

As we saw in an earlier lesson, Epaphras may have gone to Colossae to share the Good News. He also may have traveled to the nearby cities of Laodicea and Hierapolis (read Lesson 1). For sure, Epaphras’s greetings and prayers for the churches in these cities filled them with hope. Paul tells the churches that Epaphras “prays that you will continue to grow as believers [Christians]” (Colossians 4:12, EASY). Epaphras also “asks God to help you to be strong and to make you perfect” (Colossians 4:12, NLV). “He prays that you will completely understand everything that God wants you to do” (Colossians 4:12, EASY). Let’s look more carefully at the different parts of this prayer.

**“To be strong.”** The word means to stand firm and not be moved in our faith. We can do that only if we know Bible truth and trust the Good News about Jesus (Colossians 1:23). Paul uses the word “stand” many times to talk about the fight against Satan and his tricks (Ephesians 6:11). We must put on God’s battle suit, the same as clothes. Then we can stand strong against the devil and his army of evil angels (Ephesians 6:10–18; compare 2 Timothy 2:19).

**“To make you perfect.”** The word “perfect” means showing God’s holy love. This same love sent Jesus to the cross to save us (Matthew 5:44, 48).

**“Completely understand.”** The word “completely” or “complete” shows us that God wants us to know something fully. Abraham was fully convinced that God would keep His promises (Romans 4:21). The Lord made Paul strong so that Paul could fully preach the Good News (2 Timothy 4:17).

**“Everything that God wants you to do.”** The word “everything” shows us that Paul and Epaphras wanted the Colossians to know all about God’s plan for their lives. Then they would honor God and please Him in every way (Colossians 1:9, 10).