---
title:  Living For God
date:   25/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 4:14, 15 and 2 Timothy 4:10, 11. How is Luke different from Demas, and why is he different?`

John tells us, “Do not live like [the same as] people who do not know God. Do not love the wrong things that belong to this world [life]. If anyone loves those things, it [their love for those things] shows that they do not love God, their Father” (1 John 2:15, EASY). Luke’s love for Jesus caused him to be loyal to Paul to the end of Paul’s life. But not Demas. Demas loved the things of this life more than he loved heaven.

**Read the following verses. What advice do these verses give us as we wait for Jesus to come back?**

`Mark 13:32–37`

`Titus 2:11–14`

`2 Peter 3:10–14`

Jesus and His followers often warn us to watch and to be careful. We must be ready at all times for Jesus to come back. Then we won’t be surprised. Sad to say, many people will be the same as Jesus’ followers. Jesus told them to watch and pray (Mark 14:38). But many people won’t do what God asks them to do to get ready. Who or what has your heart? The answer to this question tells us if we will be ready or not for the Second Coming. We can’t serve two masters. We must choose: Jesus or Satan.

In Jesus’ message to the Laodicean church, He tells us what to do to be ready (Revelation 3:14–22). First, we must confess our sins. Second, we must open our hearts to Jesus. We must give Jesus full control of our lives. Third, we must ask Jesus for faith and love. This faith and love is the same as gold that was heated in fire. When you heat gold at a high temperature, all the dirt is removed. Then the gold is perfect. The fire is a symbol for all the suffering and tests in our lives. These tests help us to win the fight against sin and remove it from our hearts.