---
title:  A Message For Laodicea
date:   26/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 4:16–18; compare Colossians 2:1–3. Think some more about Jesus’ message to Laodicea in Revelation 3:14–22. (Read yesterday’s study.) Paul asked that his letter to the Colossian church also be read to the Laodiceans. Why was Paul’s advice important to both churches?`

In the history of God’s people, the same problems happen again and again. The prophets warned Israel not to worship false gods. The prophets were God’s special messengers. The prophets told Israel to confess their sins and to give up their false gods before it was too late. Isaiah told the people to ask God for forgiveness (Isaiah 1:21; Isaiah 1:16–20). Both John the Baptist (Matthew 3:2, 8–10) and Jesus (Matthew 4:17; Matthew 12:33–37) asked the Israelites to stop sinning and serve God. Jesus’ followers also preached the same message (Acts 2:38; Acts 3:19; Acts 17:30; 2 Corinthians 7:9, 10).

`Compare the following verses: Isaiah 60:1–3 with Revelation 18:1–4; and Isaiah 62:1–5 with Revelation 19:7, 8. What things are the same between the messages in the two books?`

God will join heaven and earth. But because of the worldwide war between good and evil, God must do this work in separate parts:

1. **The Cross.** At Calvary, Satan lost any love that the holy angels felt for him (John 12:31).
2. **Jesus’ work for us in heaven.** Jesus works as our High Priest or top religious leader in heaven. Jesus goes to God for us to get help. Because of Jesus, “God will give you every good thing that you need to serve him” (Hebrews 13:21, EASY).
3. **1,000 years in heaven.** After the Second Coming, we will spend 1,000 years in heaven. During that time, Jesus will answer all our questions about God’s work as Judge. Then sin and all sinners will be destroyed in the lake of everlasting fire. This fire will make the whole earth clean (Revelation 21:8).
4. **End of sin.** When sin is destroyed, then God can finally join heaven and earth together.