---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/03/2026
---

“When we give our lives to Jesus, He makes us the same as a strong castle on this earth. This castle is under His control and no one else’s. The people on this earth are at war with God. When we give our lives fully to Jesus, Satan cannot destroy us. So, we must allow Jesus to fully control us. Two powers control this earth. We must choose to serve one or the other. We may not choose to serve Satan. But we can come under his control anyway. That will happen if we don’t choose to serve Jesus. If we don’t work with God and His angels, Satan will take control of our hearts. Then Satan will make our hearts his home. Jesus must live in our hearts. His life in our hearts is the only safety we have against evil. Jesus lives in our hearts when we have faith in His holy and obedient life. So, we must become connected with God. This living connection is the only hope we have to fight against self and sin. We may give up many bad habits for a time. We may leave Satan for a little while. But without a living connection to God, Satan shall take control of us. We connect with God when we give our hearts fully to Him each moment. So, we must have a personal relationship with Jesus. We must continue to communicate with Him all the time. If we don’t, then Satan will take control of our lives. Then we will do what Satan wants in the end.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 324, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read again the Ellen G. White quote above. There are only two sides in the worldwide war between good and evil. If we don’t choose Jesus, we are on Satan’s side (Luke 11:23). We may not like this idea. But God doesn’t need to make His truths popular so that we will like and accept them. What does this Bible truth tell you about why you must give Jesus your heart and free will? Why is doing that so important?`

`Read Revelation 14:14–16. God poured His Holy Spirit on the church after Jesus went back to heaven. The Holy Spirit helped the church to grow. This time was named the early rain. In the end-times, God will pour His Spirit (named the late rain) on the church again. The Holy Spirit will help the church finish God’s work on earth. How does Revelation 14:12 show us this Bible truth?`