---
title:  2,300 Days
date:  30/04/2023
---

#### inGest

As we have already seen, there must be a judgment before Christ comes. The angel announces in a loud voice that “the hour of His judgment has come” (Rev. 14:7), and the book of Daniel gives us the time when this judgment began.

Each Jew understood the meaning of the cleansing of the earthly sanctuary. It occurred annually on the Day of Atonement, which was the day of judgment. Although Daniel understood the concept of the cleansing of the sanctuary and the judgment, he was confused about the 2,300-day prophecy (see Dan. 8:14).

Sent by God, Gabriel began to explain the vision to Daniel (Dan. 8:15–26). He revealed that the ram represents Media-Persia and the goat represents Greece (verses 20, 21). Though not explicitly named like the two powers before it, the next entity, the little horn, is clearly Rome (verses 9, 23, 24). Gabriel then described a kind of religious-political phase of Rome, which would “cast down the truth to the ground” (verses 10–12) and interfere with Christ’s heavenly ministry (verses 10–12). The cleansing of the sanctuary in Daniel 8:14, the climax of the chapter, is God’s answer to the challenge of earthly and religious powers that have attempted to usurp His authority. It is part of God’s divine solution to the sin problem.

At the end of chapter 8 we can clearly see that Daniel did not understand the part of the vision about the 2,300 days: “I was astonished by the vision, but no one understood it” (verse 27). The part about the ram, the goat, and the little horn had already been explained, the first two powers having been identified by name (verses 20, 21), but the cleansing of the sanctuary was not. Daniel was therefore speaking of the 2,300 days.

The next chapter, Daniel 9, records the angel Gabriel returning to explain the 2,300 days: “O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you skill to understand” (verse 22). Gabriel amazed Daniel as he revealed the answer to his prayer, which was much broader than he ever imagined. He took Daniel down the stream of time and revealed the truth about the coming Messiah, nearly giving the exact dates of the beginning of His ministry and His cruel death, events that are directly tied to the cleansing of the sanctuary in Daniel 8. In other words, Christ’s death and the judgment are inseparably linked.

Some argue that the 2,300 days are literal days rather than years. They also believe the little horn of Daniel 8 applies to the Seleucid military leader Antiochus Epiphanes (216 B.C.–164 B.C.), who attacked Jerusalem and defiled the Jewish temple. However, this interpretation is erroneous for two reasons: First, 2,300 days does not fit Antiochus’ time frame. Second, this belief directly contradicts the angel’s clear instruction that the vision applies to the “time of the end,” because Antiochus obviously did not live at the time of the end.

Journal:

`Why is it significant that the death of Jesus, as revealed in Daniel 9:24–27, is directly linked to the judgment in Daniel 8:14? What great truth is taught here by this link?`

`What does the fact that Gabriel called Daniel “greatly beloved” tell us about the intimate link between heaven and earth?`

` `