---
title:  490 Days
date:  01/05/2023
---

#### inTerpret

The angel plainly instructed Daniel to “consider the matter, and understand the vision” (Dan. 9:23). What matter, and what vision? Because there is no vision recorded in Daniel 9, the angel Gabriel must have been speaking of the part of the vision in Daniel 8 that the prophet did not understand—the 2,300 days (Dan. 8:27).

The first portion of the explanation in Daniel 9:24–27 relates to God’s people, the Jews: “Seventy weeks are determined for your people” (verse 24). In biblical prophecy, one prophetic day equals one literal year (Ezek. 4:6; Num. 14:34). In Daniel and Revelation, when there is symbolic imagery, there is usually a symbolic time prophecy as well. One of the ways we can be certain that the day-year principle of prophecy applies here is that when we use it in Daniel’s prophecy, a historical event lines up perfectly with the prophesied time line (see inVite). If we apply this principle, 70 weeks are composed of 490 days. Since one prophetic day equals one literal year, 490 days are 490 literal years.

Gabriel tells Daniel that 490 years are “cut off” (the literal meaning of the Hebrew word chathak, sometimes translated “determined”). Cut off from what? It could be the only other time prophecy alluded to here: the 2,300 days of Daniel 8:14. These 490 years, a time prophecy, are directly linked to the time prophecy of Daniel 8:14. Thus, we can see that Gabriel came to help Daniel understand what he struggled with in the previous chapter: the 2,300 days.

The first 490 years of the 2,300-year prophecy were designated especially for the Jewish nation of antiquity and the coming of the Messiah. The remaining part of the 2,300 years has to do with God’s people, both Jew and Gentile, along with the cleansing of the heavenly sanctuary and ultimately, the second coming of Christ.

The first 490 years apply to the first Advent of the Messiah, which ended in A.D. 34. Subtracting 490 years from 2,300 years leaves us with 1,810 years. These next 1,810 years apply to God’s people. If we begin at A.D. 34 and add 1,810 years, we come to the year A.D. 1844.

In light of the cleansing or restoration of the truth about the sanctuary and heaven’s end-time judgment, God makes His final appeal to all humanity in Revelation 14:6, 7 to respond to His love, accept His grace, and live godly, obedient lives.

Because of the people’s sins—their iniquities—Leviticus 16:16 teaches that the sanctuary had to be cleansed, which could happen only with blood. It’s the same with us. We need a Savior, whose life was symbolized by the animals slain on the Day of Atonement, as the only way to pass through the judgment.

On that annual day of judgment, Leviticus 23:26–29 states that the Israelites were to “afflict their souls.” This expression indicates that they were to humble themselves, examine their hearts, confess their sins, repent, and ask God to cleanse them, just as the high priest was cleansing the earthly sanctuary.

The prophetic chapters of Daniel 7–9 and Revelation 14 focus especially on the urgent appeals to prepare given in the judgment hour. Since 1844 we have been living in the judgment hour, affirmed by the message of the first angel: “The hour of His judgment has come” (Rev. 14:7).

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do we today “afflict our souls”?`

` `