---
title:  The Messiah “Cut Off”
date:  03/05/2023
---

#### inVite

Another easy way to look at the 70-week prophecy of Daniel 9:24–27 is in three parts: first, the 70 weeks (verse 24) as a whole; second, the seven weeks and 62 weeks, or 69 weeks (verse 25) that are part of the 70 weeks; and third, the last week, the seventieth (verse 27). This last week is divided, “in the middle of the week” (verse 27), into two three-and-a-half-year sections.

That’s it. Seventy weeks, which are broken down into 69 weeks and one week, and that one week divided in half. So we have the formula, but what is the beginning date?

In talking about the 2,300 days, Daniel 8 never specified when the 2,300 days began. “Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed” (verse 14). Unto two thousand and three hundred days—from when? Why not from when Daniel had the vision itself, the “third year of the reign of king Belshazzar” (verse 1)?

That doesn’t work. The vision in Daniel 8 didn’t include Babylon, instead starting with events after it, such as Media-Persia, Greece, and Rome, up to “the end.” Why date an event (the cleansing of the sanctuary) that is in the vision from an event (Babylon) that is not? The starting date for the climax of the vision should come from within the vision itself, which started with Media-Persia and extends to “the end.” That’s a lot of years. Which one began it? We are not told in Daniel 8. We are told in Daniel 9.

Gabriel began the explanation of the 490-year prophecy with an event that was extremely important to the Jews: the command to restore and rebuild Jerusalem. Though various decrees had been passed regarding Jerusalem, in Ezra 7 we discover that the decree passed in 457 B.C. allowed the Jews not only to return to their homeland but also to establish themselves as a religious community (see Ezra 7:13, 27).

It is significant to note that Artaxerxes’ decree was issued in the autumn of 457 B.C. According to Daniel, the time from this decree until the Messiah should be 69 weeks, or 483 years. If we begin at 457 B.C. and move forward in history’s time line, we arrive at A.D. 27. So what happened in A.D. 27?

The word “Messiah” means “the anointed one.” In A.D. 27 Jesus Christ, the Messiah, was baptized (see Matt. 3:13–17). Daniel predicted the exact year for the baptism of Christ, the time at which Jesus would begin His three and a half years of ministry, hundreds of years in advance.

“And after the sixty-two weeks Messiah shall be cut off, but not for Himself” (Dan. 9:26). The Messiah would be “cut off,” or crucified. The verse adds “but not for Himself.” In other words, the death of Christ on Calvary’s cross was for us, not for Himself, which is why Paul could write: “But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Rom. 5:8).

Returning to our prophetic time line, in Daniel 9:27 we read that in the middle of the week, in the last literal seven years of the 70-week prophecy, Christ would “bring an end to sacrifice and offering.” In the middle of this seventieth week, in A.D. 31, Christ confirmed the everlasting covenant with His blood by dying on the cross, and the sacrificial system lost any and all prophetic and salvific significance.

These prophecies reveal that Christ, the Messiah, would be crucified and cause the sacrificial system to cease its prophetic function in the spring of A.D. 31. These predictions were fulfilled in every detail. Exactly at Passover, when the high priest was offering the Passover lamb, Christ was sacrificed for us.

Journal:

`Meditate on Daniel 8–9 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How does the exact prediction of Jesus’ crucifixion deepen your relationship and discipleship with the Lord Jesus Christ?`

`How do you see Him differently in light of this week’s lesson?`

` `