---
title:  Who Is God?
date:  05/10/2020
---

#### inTerpret

In addition to serving as the story of beginnings, the Creation narrative is also an introduction to God. By looking at each of the verbs in Genesis 1, we gain insights into who is God the Creator.

**A God Who Speaks**

God is a God who speaks (Gen 1:3). He is not mute or unwilling to communicate. He has the ability to communicate with His creation. Thus, although He is infinite and eternal, He is not separate from the finite and temporal. More than creating light, God’s Word defies present experience and creates reality itself, “so that the things which are seen were not made of things which are visible” (Heb. 11:3). In creation, we find that God’s Word can be true even if it doesn’t appear to be true, for it is His Word, not the present state of things, that defines reality.

**A God Who Sees and Divides**

In addition to speaking, God is able to see and divide (organize) (Gen. 1:4). He has the ability to see what is good (and by implication what is not good) as well as divide, or organize, the chaotic condition of an earth that is “without form, and void” (Gen 1:2). There are rich consequences attached to God’s ability to see, to know what is good and bad, and divide or organize the chaotic state of the planet. God looks upon His creation and wishes a good outcome for it. He is not afraid of inhabiting chaos. More important, He is well able to fix chaotic situations and transform them into realities that are altogether new.

**A God to Trust**

The Creation story also speaks of God’s dependability and why faith in Him is reasonable. His Word caused the fruit tree to yield seed according to its kind with a seed in itself that had the power to do the same (Gen. 1:11, 12). In other words, God made several requests of fruit-yielding trees. First, He said that the apple tree must produce apples. Second, He ensured that the apple tree, in addition to producing apples, should not produce a different kind of fruit such as a banana. Third, He commanded that the apple tree produce seeds that would multiply the production of similar trees with similar characteristics and abilities. To this day, no apple tree produces a banana.

If in the sport of professional basketball, an athlete can score a long-distance shot 50 percent of the time, they are considered one of the most dependable long-distance scorers on the team. Fruit trees never miss. They testify of God’s power and that He does not fail.

``