---
title:  Christ Is Love
date:  07/10/2020
---

#### inVite

Speaking of Jesus, John says, “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made” (John 1:1–3). The active Character of Genesis 1 is none other than Jesus Christ Himself. He was with God; He was God; and everything was made by Him. He is the central figure of the creation narrative; He is the Creator.

One of the most fascinating aspects of the Creation story is the care and thoughtfulness that Jesus shows His creation. Specifically, it is shown in at least two instances in Genesis 1: when He named the light as day, and when He invested His creation with purpose.

**The Name of Love**

When you think about it, the ritual of naming is not just for pragmatic reasons. If parents wanted to name their children for the singular purpose of being able to properly identify them, they could name the first child “One,” the second child “Two,” and the third one “Three.” The custom of naming our children carries with it a sentimental value. This is why parents will sometimes spend a lot of time thinking about the name the child will inherit, or purchase books containing the meaning of names of children. Similarly, most people do not take the time to name insects that sneak into their home but may name animals or pets that are dear to their family. Jesus did not only identify the light as light but also named it Day.

**The Purpose of Love**

Another aspect of Christ’s love is demonstrated in how the narrative depicts the creation of the lights. God made “the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night” (Gen. 1:16). He made other lights “in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night” and “for signs and seasons, and for days and years” (Gen. 1:14).

Although it is not typically regarded as such, Christ’s bestowment of purpose on His creation is an act of love. One of the worst acts of cruelty would be for Jesus to make something exist without a purpose. Many who find no purpose in life often seek purpose in seeking death. Yet, love is the very nature of Christ. When He created humanity, He created it with the greatest privilege of all: the purpose of reflecting His own infinite and eternal image. Can there be a greater manifestation of love?

``