---
title:  Jesus, The Giver Of Rest
date:  22/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 15:13–21; Hebrews 3:12–19; Exodus 20:8–11; Deuteronomy 5:12–15; Hebrews 4:6–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “And so God’s people have a complete [full; total] rest waiting for them” (Hebrews 4:9, NLV).

HEBREWS 1 AND 2, as we saw, show us that Jesus is the King of the people of God. We also saw that Jesus frees His people from sin. Hebrews 3 and 4 introduce Jesus as the One who will give His people rest. We can better understand idea about Jesus when we remember the promise that God made to King David. God promised to give the king and his people “peace” from the enemies who bothered them (2 Samuel 7:10, 11, ERV). We can have this same rest right now because Jesus sits at the right side of God.

Hebrews explains that the rest that Jesus gives us belongs to God and is the same as a Sabbath rest (Hebrews 4:1–11). God gave this rest to Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve spent the first Sabbath with God. They had perfect rest with God who made that experience possible. Their perfect experience helps us understand another reason that God promises us a Sabbath rest. When we really keep the Sabbath holy, we show His promise to make the earth perfect again.

When we keep the Sabbath, we remember that God made us. The Sabbath also helps us remember that God is our Savior. At the same time, the Sabbath includes so much more than our remembering. The Sabbath is the same as a “taste” of the future life that God promises us.