---
title:  The Land Of Promise Is A Place Of Rest 
date:  23/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 15:13–21. As we see from these verses, what does God promise Abraham?`

God promises Abraham that He will free Israel from slavery in Egypt. Then God will bring Israel to the land of Canaan. There, the Israelites may rest (Exodus 33:14, Joshua 1:13). Canaan is the land that God promised to their father Abraham. God made Abraham this promise because Abraham obeyed God. How did Abraham obey? Abraham left his country to go to the Promised Land (Genesis 11:31–12:4).

So, God gives His people Canaan as a home. But God also has a bigger reason for giving the land to Israel. God wants His people to be close to Him (Exodus 19:4). God wants nothing to get in the way of their love for Him. So, God brings Israel to Canaan. There, they can learn about God. Then Israel can tell other people about God and His love. Both the Sabbath and the land of Canaan make a close friendship possible between God and His people.

In Deuteronomy 12:1–14, the Lord tells Israel what they must do before they may start to enjoy His rest. They must destroy the false gods in the land first. Then God will show Israel the place where He will live among them.

`Read about the Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15. What two things does the Sabbath rest help us remember? How are these two things connected?`

God connects the Sabbath day with the end of slavery for His people in Egypt. So, God commands Israel to keep the Sabbath to show that God made the earth and also freed Israel from slavery. In the same way, the Sabbath shows us that God made us and is our Savior. We did not make ourselves, so we cannot save ourselves. Only God can save us. When we rest on the Sabbath, we show everyone that we depend on God to give us life and to free us from the slavery of sin. Sabbath keeping is powerful proof that our own good behavior cannot save us. Our Sabbath keeping shows everyone that we are saved only by the mercy of God.

`How does our keeping the Sabbath show other people that we must completely depend on God to give us new life and to save us?`