---
title:  Because They Do Not Believe 
date:  24/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`As we saw, God plans that Canaan shall be a place of rest for His people. But Israel does not “enjoy the rest he planned for them” (Hebrews 3:18, NIrV). Why not? For the answer, read Hebrews 3:12–19.`

Hebrews 3:12–19 tells us the sad story that happens after God frees His from people from Egypt. Israel comes to the Promised Land. But they cannot enter into the rest that God promises them. Numbers 13 and 14 explain why. Ten of the twelve Israelite spies “brought the people of Israel bad news about the land” (Numbers 13:32, NLV).

Only Caleb and Joshua believe that God will bring Israel into the Promised Land (Numbers 14:7–9). But the people have no faith. For sure, their doubt is a surprise when we think about all the miracles they saw. They saw the Ten Awful Curses God put on the land of Egypt (Exodus 7–12). The Israelites watched God destroy the Egyptian army in the Red Sea (Exodus 14). God also sent His people bread from heaven (Exodus 16). God gave Israel water from the Rock (Exodus 17). God also led Israel by His cloud (Exodus 40:36–38). But after all these miracles, Israel fails to trust God. No wonder many Bible writers say that Israel in the desert is a word picture for a heart with no faith (Nehemiah 9:15–17; Psalm 106:24–26; 1 Corinthians 10:5–10).

God promises us gifts that no human can offer us. We can get these gifts only by our faith in the mercy of God. The Israelites do not have this faith. So, the message of hope that God gives Israel “did not help them. They heard it but did not accept it with faith” (Hebrews 4:2, ERV).

The spies give two different reports about the Promised Land. The Israelites choose to believe the bad report. Our faith can cause people to trust God. Or our doubt can cause people not to trust Him. So, we must be careful. We must “encourage each other every day” (Hebrews 3:13). We also should “help each other to love others [people] and to do good” (Hebrews 10:24, NLV). Paul also asks us to make sure “that no one loses God’s blessing” (Hebrews 12:15, WE). Today, we travel to the Promised Land. We are responsible for the people on this journey with us.

`How can you encourage the faith of other Christians around you? How can you make sure you never say or do anything that can weaken or hurt the faith of someone else?`