---
title:  “if You Hear God’s Voice Today . . .” 
date:  25/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read in Hebrews 4:6–11 the invitation from God to His people. What does God invite us to do?`

As we saw, God frees His people from Egypt. But they do not have faith to enter into His place of rest. God continues working with His people anyway (2 Timothy 2:13). But what about the promise of rest that God made to Israel? In Hebrews 4:1, 6, 9, Paul uses the verbs “kataleipō” and “apoleipō” to show us that the promise continues “waiting” for the people of God. “Kataleipō” and “apoleipō” also show us that the Israelites paid no attention to the promise. In Hebrews 4:6, 7, Paul says that God offers His rest to King David (read Psalm 95). This offer is proof that Israel did not accept the promise of rest from God. So, the promise continues to be there for the people of God to accept when they are ready. Paul says that this promise has been ready for us since God made the earth and sky (Hebrews 4:3, 4).

God invites us “today” to accept His rest. “Today” is a powerful time word, as we see in Deuteronomy. When Moses makes new the Agreement between the Israelites and God, Moses uses the word “today” (Deuteronomy 5:3; compare Deuteronomy 4:8; Deuteronomy 6:6; Deuteronomy 11:2, and so on). Moses invites the people “today” to see that God always keeps His promises (Deuteronomy 11:2–7). The people must decide to obey the Lord “today,” too (Deuteronomy 5:1–3). They must not put off their decision. In the same way, “today” shows us that we must not wait to obey God.

“Today” also shows us the time when God will start to keep His promises. This time starts when Jesus sits on the throne of His Father. Then God tells Jesus, “ ‘Today I have become your Father’ ” (Hebrews 1:5, ERV). This new time brings us gifts and blessings: (1) Jesus beat our enemies (Hebrews 2:14–16). (2) Jesus starts the New Agreement, too (Hebrews 8–10). So, we now can “go with complete trust to the throne of God” (Hebrews 4:14–16, NLV; Hebrews 10:19–23). We may bring Jesus our spiritual offerings of praise and thanksgiving (Hebrews 12:28; Hebrews 13:10–16). God invites us “today” to trust His promises. He gives us every reason to accept His invitation right away and not delay.

`What spiritual decisions must you make “today”? Why must you not put them off for another time? What happened when you delayed doing something that God wanted you to do?`