---
title:  Entering Into His Rest 
date:  26/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 3:11 and Hebrews 4:1, 3, 5, 10 about the rest that God offers us. What does God say about this rest?`

God does not invite us to enjoy ordinary rest. God invites us to enjoy His rest. The Bible shows us that “rest” can show us many things: (1) “Rest” shows us the peace that the Israelites enjoyed in Canaan (Deuteronomy 3:20). (2) “Rest” shows us the temple where the ark, or the holy box, stayed (2 Chronicles 6:41. (3) “Rest” also shows us the Sabbath (Exodus 20:11). In Hebrews 4:1, 3, 5, 10, the Lord invites us to enjoy a different rest: His rest.

`What are we invited to do in Hebrews 4:9–11, 16?`

The Sabbath celebrates Jesus as our Savior. Jesus frees us from the slavery of sin, just as He freed Israel free from slavery in Egypt (Deuteronomy 5:12–15). The Sabbath rest also celebrates the time when God finished making the earth and skies (Genesis 2:1–3; Exodus 20:8–11). Paul connects the idea of rest with Jesus, too. Jesus sat down on the throne of His Father only after He died for our sins (Hebrews 10:12–14).

Do you see that God rests only after He makes us safe and happy? In the same way, God rests only after He makes the earth and skies. Later, God rests in the temple on earth only after David wins the land and Israel “lived in safety” (1 Kings 4:21–25, ESV; compare with Exodus 15:18–21; Deuteronomy 11:24; 2 Samuel 8:1–14). God commands King Solomon to build Him a house only after the king and the people build their houses first.

The biggest blessing of rest will come in the New Earth. Paul says, “Abraham was looking for a city which will last [continue] for ever. It was the city God planned and made” (Hebrews 11:10, WE; read also Hebrews 11:14–16). On the new earth, God promises to give us the glory and honor that Adam lost (Hebrews 2:5–8; Hebrews 12:28). These gifts are part of the future rest that God promises us. This rest is more than land. This rest is a Sabbath rest on the new earth, where God will put His throne.

`How can we, right now, enjoy the rest that God has for us? How does the promise of future rest on the New Earth show us that God saves us only by His mercy?`