---
title:  A “taste” Of Heaven 
date:  27/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare the Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20:8–11 with the Sabbath commandment in Deuteronomy 5:12–15. Then read about the Sabbath in Hebrews 4:8–11. How do these verses talk about Sabbath rest? How are the verses different?`

As we saw, the Sabbath commandment helps us remember the past. The verses from Exodus and Deuteronomy tell us to rest on the Sabbath to show that we believe that Jesus made us and saves us. Hebrews 4:9–11 invites us to look to the future. These verses tell us that God made a Sabbath rest for us that will be part of our life on the New Earth.

After Adam and Eve sinned, the Sabbath showed that God will one day make things new again. When we keep the Sabbath, we also show people that we believe that God will save us. The Sabbath gives us a small “taste” right now of heaven while we live on an earth that is far from perfect.

Jewish thinkers believed this idea, too. We see this idea in a book named “Life of Adam and Eve,” The Old Testament Pseudepigraph, by James H. Charlesworth. In this work, Charlesworth says, “The seventh day is a word picture that shows us that the dead will wake up from their graves. Then a new time of rest will start.”—Page 18, adapted. A Jewish writer from long ago writes: “The future time of rest is the same as a Sabbath that will continue forever.”—Jacob Neusner, The Mishnah a New Translation (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press), page 873, adapted. The Othiot of Rabbi Akiba was written later. In this book, we read: “ ‘The people of Israel asked the Lord, the Holy One: ‘You are the Master who Controls the Earth. May You be blessed. If we keep the commandments, what will be our reward?’ The Lord answered them: ‘You will have heaven.’ The people said to Him: ‘What do we have already that can show us heaven?’ The Lord showed them the Sabbath.’ ”—Theodore Friedman, “The Sabbath Anticipation of Redemption,” Judaism: A Quarterly Journal, volume 16, pages 443, 444, adapted.

Sabbath is a time for joy, thanksgiving, and celebration. When we keep the Sabbath, we show that we believe in the saving promises of God. We show that we accept His gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. Our keeping the Sabbath shows that we have a living faith.

`How does our resting on the Sabbath show that we cannot save ourselves by our own good behavior?`