---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In the book of Hebrews, Paul uses the Sabbath rest to show us that God saves us by His mercy. Paul does not use Sunday to show us this Bible truth. What does this information show us about New Testament Christians? The information shows us that the New Testament Christians honored and kept the Sabbath. But soon big changes happened in the church. Christians stopped seeing the Sabbath as a word picture for how God saves us. The Christians saw the Sabbath as Jewish and part of the Old Agreement. So, Christians stopped keeping the Sabbath. That is why Ignatius of Antioch (around A.D. 110) wrote: “People who followed the Old Agreement in the past now have new hope. They no longer keep the Sabbath. Now they keep the day of the Lord, Sunday. On this day, our life woke up from the dead with Jesus.”—Jacques B. Doukhan, Israel and the Church: Two Voices for the Same God (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers, 2002), page 42, adapted. In the same way, Marcion ordered his followers not to eat any food on the Sabbath to show people that they rejected the Jews and their God. Victorinus did not want people to think “he kept the Sabbath of the Jews.”—Read Israel and the Church, pages 41–45, adapted.

“When Jesus lives in our hearts, we will have peace and rest. We may not show we have this peace by any strong feelings of happiness. But we will feel a trust that lives deep in our hearts. Your reason for hope does not come from yourself. Your hope comes only from Jesus Christ. Your foolishness joins to His wisdom. Your weakness joins to His strength and might. His might never fails. So, do not look to yourself for hope. Do not think about self at all. Look to Jesus. Let your mind think long about His perfect love and beauty. Think only about Jesus. He was not selfish. He had a heart without pride. He was free from guilt. He was holy. His love cannot be matched by anything in heaven or on earth. Make this thought the topic you think about: Jesus and His love.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 70, 71, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1.	How does our keeping the Sabbath show that we believe that we are saved by the loving-favor of God? How does our keeping the Sabbath show that Jesus gives us new life?`

`2.	How do we keep the Sabbath holy? How is this experience different from trying to save ourselves by our own good behavior?`