---
title:  A Message Worth Sharing
date:   12/09/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Revelation 14:6–8, 14–20.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then I saw another angel flying in the heavens [high in the sky]. He was carrying the Good News that lasts forever. He was preaching to every nation [country] and to every family group and to the people of every language and to all the people of [on] the earth. He said with a loud voice, ‘Honor God with love and fear [respect and obedience]. The time has come for Him to judge all men. Worship Him Who made heaven and earth and the sea and the places where water comes out of the earth’ ” (Revelation 14:6, 7, NLV).

JESUS died for everyone who ever lived. So, the Good News is for everyone. The Good News is all about Jesus. It is about how Jesus wins the war against the devil and death. Jesus joins us to God again. He came to make us free from sin’s punishment and power. Jesus makes us clean and holy. Jesus died for us and now lives for us. Jesus died the death we should have died so that we can live with Him. Soon He will cover us with glory and give us bodies that will not die. Jesus will come again to make us free from sin forever.

The Bible tells us about Jesus’ two comings. He came the first time to save us. He will come back to take us home. The book of Revelation was written to help us get ready for the Second Coming. This week, we will look at why Revelation is important for people today. We will look at Jesus’ invitation to His end-time church to help Him share this final message of mercy with the people on earth.
