---
title:  PETER’S SPECIAL MESSAGE FOR HIS TIME
date:   13/09/2020
---

All during Bible history, God sent special messages to His people. These prophecies, or special messages, helped God’s people to get ready for what was coming. God always knows what will happen (Isaiah 46:9, 10). So, God helps His people get ready for the future by sending to them His prophets, or special messengers. The prophets warn God’s people before God’s punishment comes against them (Amos 3:7). In the days before the Flood, God sent Noah a message. Then Noah warned the people on the earth that the Flood was coming. In Egypt, God chose Joseph to help the people get ready for the food shortage seven years before it happened. The Jewish prophets warned the Israelite leaders that the armies of Babylon were coming to destroy Jerusalem. John the Baptist’s message helped the Jews get ready for Jesus’ first coming.

`Read 2 Peter 1:12. What words does Peter write in this verse to talk about the message God gives him for the Christians in his day?`

`Read 2 Peter 1:16–21. As these verses show, what “present truth” message do Peter and Jesus’ followers announce? Present truth is the truth that people need most for the time they live in.`

The present-truth message for Peter’s day was that Jesus came. Jesus’ death on the cross showed God the Father’s love. Sin leads to death. But Jesus made it possible for everyone to have everlasting life. It is our choice to accept this gift (Romans 3:23; Romans 6:23; Ephesians 2:8). The message about God’s gift of everlasting life in Jesus will never be out of date. It is present truth for all people for all time.

The Bible’s last book is Revelation. Revelation shows Jesus and His gift of everlasting life. This book was written to help people living in the end times to get ready for Jesus’ Second Coming. Revelation shows us everything that is wrong with human ways of life and selfish religion. From the first page to the last page, Revelation shows Jesus and the work He does to save people. Jesus is the true witness. He shows us who His Father is. Jesus “is the head [top leader] over all the kings of the earth” (Revelation 1:5, NLV). Revelation is all about Jesus.
