---
title: 'Revelation’s End-Time Message'
date: 14/09/2020
---

The first four books of the New Testament are known as the Gospels. The Gospels are mostly about Jesus’ first coming. They tell the story about Jesus’ being born, His life, His work for God on earth, His death on the cross, and His waking up from the dead. The Gospels talk about the Second Coming. But that is not their most important topic. The book of Revelation does what the Gospels do not do. Revelation’s most important topic is the end of the war between God and Satan. Almost all of its most important prophecies, or special messages, end in the Second Coming.

`Read Revelation 1:7; Revelation 11:15; Revelation 14:14–20; and Revelation 19:11–18. What happens in each of these verses? How do they all end?`

From the first chapter to the last chapter in Revelation, almost every prophecy ends in Jesus’ Second Coming. The “ ‘Lamb [a word picture for Jesus] who was killed’ ” (Revelation 5:12, ERV) will come again. He is the King “ ‘who rules [has control] over all’ ” (Revelation 19:15, NIrV). Jesus will beat all the enemies who hurt God’s people and attacked them because of their faith (Revelation 17:14). Jesus will set free His people from this life of sin. He will bring His people home to live with Him in glory. The worldwide war between good and evil will end. God will make the earth new. The saved will live there with their Lord forever (Revelation 21:1–4).

In Revelation 22:7, NIrV, Jesus says, “ ‘Look! I am coming soon! Words of prophecy are written in this book. Blessed is the person who obeys them.’ ” (Read also Revelation 22:12, 17, and 20.) Jesus’ final message to all humans is clear. He wants them to be ready for His Second Coming. So, He asks them to accept His love and mercy and to obey Bible truth. The book of Revelation ends with Jesus’ invitation: “ ‘The Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” Everyone who hears this should also say, “Come!” ’ ” (Revelation 22:17, ERV).

Our Lord invites everyone who seeks everlasting life to come to Him. Then He invites us to join Him in inviting other people to accept His message of love too. Jesus sends us to share His message with people. This message will help them get ready for Jesus’ Second Coming. He is coming soon. Let us work together with Him!
