---
title: 'Revelation’s End-Time Message'
date: 15/09/2020
---

The center of Revelation is chapter 14. This chapter is very important to God’s people in the last days. It shows God’s end-time message to humans. This message is important to God’s people and all humans on the earth.

`Read Revelation 14:14–20. What word picture is used in these verses to show Jesus’ Second Coming?`

The word picture of collecting grain is used in the Bible to show Jesus’ Second Coming (read Matthew 13:37–43; Mark 4:29). In Revelation 14, the crop of ripe grain shows us the people that God saves. These people obey God. The ripe grapes show us that God will destroy evil people. Revelation 14:6–12 has an important end-time message. This message will help men and women get ready to be part of the final “crop” that God saves from the earth.

`Read Revelation 14:6, 7. What are these verses saying? How do these verses help us to understand who we are as Seventh-day Adventists?`

The First Angel’s Message gives our lives meaning. That is something that people in our time deeply want. The First Angel’s Message shows that God will forgive anyone who accepts His gift of mercy. God’s grace, or loving-favor, cleans us from the guilt of sin. God’s grace helps us win the war against sin. The First Angel’s Message gives us the reason for our worth: Jesus made us and saves us. The First Angel’s Message also shows us that in the future God will judge and punish evildoers. This is wonderful news! It shows us that evil will not last forever.

**“In a special way, God made Seventh-day Adventists to be the same as guards and lights on this earth. God gave Seventh-day Adventists the last warning for a dying planet. God gave Seventh-day Adventists wonderful Bible truth. God also gave Seventh-day Adventists work to do that is very important. Their job is to announce the First, Second, and Third Angels’ Messages to the people on earth. No other work is as important. Seventh-day Adventists must not let anything else take their attention away from this work.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, pages 119, 120. How can we make sure we give this work our full attention?**
