---
title:  UNDERSTANDING GOD’S END-TIME MESSAGE MORE FULLY
date:   16/09/2020
---

Revelation’s end-time message shows Jesus and His saving grace, or loving-favor. This grace is for all humans everywhere (Revelation 14:6). This end-time message asks us to obey and honor God in all that we do. God now works as our Judge. So, we must respect His commands and obey His law (Revelation 14:7). To “fear God” (Revelation 14:7, KJV) is to obey and respect Him. Fearing God is about how we think too. To fear God means we live to please God. We must put Him first in all our thoughts. Then we will want to obey God with our whole hearts and minds. This thought and feeling will lead us to live holy lives (Proverbs 3:7; Acts 9:31; 1 Peter 2:17). The First Angel’s Message also invites us to “give glory” to God (Revelation 14:7, KJV). We do that by honoring God in every part of our lives.

`Read Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14 and 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20. How do these verses help us understand what it means to both “fear God” and give glory to Him?`

We live at a time when most people do not want to be responsible for what they do wrong. Millions of people feel that they do not have to answer to anyone at all. The First Angel’s Message helps us to remember that now is the time when God will judge the people on the earth. So, we must be responsible for our actions. There is a connection between honoring and obeying God, and His work as our Judge. Obedience comes from a saving friendship with Jesus. Only His holy life is good enough to save us at this time. We are safe because He is right with God. In Him we live to give glory to God’s Name in all that we do.

`Read Revelation 14:7; Revelation 4:11; Genesis 2:1–3; and Exodus 20:8–11. What is the basic reason for all true worship? How does the Sabbath show this reason to us?`

Satan has attacked the Sabbath. He knows that the Sabbath is at the center of worship. The Sabbath honors Jesus as the One who made the earth. The Sabbath is God’s invitation to everyone everywhere to “ ‘worship him who made the heavens and the earth’ ” (Revelation 14:7, NIrV). This is an important announcement for this time. Most people believe false ideas about how the earth was made.
