---
title:  GOD’S FINAL INVITATION
date:   17/09/2020
---

`Read Revelation 14:8; Revelation 17:3–6; and Revelation 18:1–4. What do we learn about spiritual Babylon from these verses?`

In the book of Revelation, “Babylon” is a word picture for a false religious power. This false religious power teaches people that their own good works save them. This lie is only one of Babylon’s many false teachings. This false religious power also teaches people to respect man-made ideas and ways of life that go against Bible truth. Babylon praises humans and their good works above Jesus and His holy life. Babylon puts the commands of human religious teachers above the commands of God. In the Old Testament, Babylon was the center of the worship of false gods, sun worship, and the belief that the soul lives on after the body dies. Modern Babylon mixes many of Old Testament Babylon’s religious beliefs and ways of life into its worship today. God’s end-time message to our dying planet is the message that only Jesus and His holy life save us. That is why God warns us, “ ‘She is destroyed! The great [big and powerful] city of Babylon is destroyed! . . . Come out of that city, my people, so that you will not share in her sins. Then you will not suffer any of the terrible punishment she will get’ ” (Revelation 18:2, 4, ERV). God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church to announce the message of Jesus fully. That means we are commanded to bring people’s attention to everything Jesus taught. We must announce the One who is “the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6, KJV). We must show how the mistakes and faults of Babylon compare to Jesus’ Bible truths.

`Read Revelation 14:7, 9–11. What two different things are being worshiped in these verses?`

Revelation 14 shows two different acts of worship. (1) There is the worship of the One who made the sky and the earth. (2) There is the worship of the wild sea-animal power. These two acts of worship show us what the final war between good and evil will be about: the Sabbath. The true Sabbath is a sign of the rest, hope, and trust we have in Jesus to save us and come again as our King. The false sabbath is a sign of human ideas and man-made laws.
