---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   18/09/2020
---

“God commanded the people of Israel during Bible times to stand as His witnesses on this earth. God commands His church today to do the same thing. God separated the Seventh-day Adventist Church from other churches and from the people on the earth. God used truth the same as a sharp knife to cut His people away from the other churches. The truth God used to separate His people was the First, Second, and Third Angels’ Messages. God separated His people to bring them close to Himself. God gave His people His law and the special messages for this time. God expects His people to share these Bible truths with everyone on earth. God asked Israel to do the same thing in Bible times when He gave them His holy laws.

“The Three Angels of Revelation 14 are a word picture. They show us the people who accept the Three Angels’ Messages and warn everyone on the earth. Jesus says to His followers: ‘You are [the same as] the light that shines for the world to see.’ Matthew 5:14 [ERV]. The cross on Calvary shows every person who accepts Jesus how much a soul is worth. ‘Jesus said to the followers, “Go everywhere in the world. Tell the Good News to everyone.” ’ Mark 16:15 [ICB]. We must not let anything stop us from doing this work. It is the most important work for our time. . . . Jesus showed how much He loved humans when He died on the cross to save them. This same love will cause Jesus’ followers to work.

“Jesus very gladly accepts every human who gives himself fully to Him. Jesus joins humans to God. Then Jesus uses us to communicate His love to everyone on earth. This love is a mystery. It caused Jesus to become a human and come to earth. Talk about this love. Pray about it. Sing about it. Fill the whole earth with the message of Jesus’ truth.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels for the Church, pages 58, 59.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. How do the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14 show us the reason for the Seventh-day Adventist Church and why we are here on this earth?`

`2. Every week, God commands us to remember Him as the One who made us and saves us. How does this Bible truth help us understand why the Sabbath is important?`

`3. We must be gentle and kind when warning people about Babylon and the wild sea animal’s mark. How can we share these Bible truths in the best way possible?`
