---
title:  STUBBORN “COMFORTERS”
date:   27/11/2016
---

### STUBBORN “COMFORTERS”

(Job 13:28)

Even after Job’s powerful testimony (witness; statement) of faith (Job 13:15, 16), the quarrel continues. Over the course of many chapters, the men go back and forth, arguing over many deep and important questions about God, sin, death, justice, the wicked, wisdom, and how short human life is.

`Read Job 13:28; Job 15:14–16; Job 19:25–27; and Job 28:28. What truths are being shown in these verses?`

Through all these chapters the arguments continue. Neither side wants to give up its position. Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar argue from their own set of beliefs about what is right. They do not give up their argument about how people get what they deserve in life. They are stubborn in arguing that what has come upon Job must be just punishment for his sins. But Job continues to cry out against the cruel tragedy (very bad event) that has happened to him. He persists in (remains true to) the argument that he does not deserve the suffering. Back and forth Job and his friends quarrel. Each “comforter”  nds fault with Job for using empty and proud words. And Job accuses them of doing the same.

In the end, none of them, including Job, understands all that is going on. How could they? They speak from a very limited point of view, which all humans have. Suppose we could get one lesson from the book of Job (one that should be clear by now, especially after all the speeches of these men). It would be this: that we as humans need to be humble when we talk about God and the workings of God. We might know some truth, maybe even a lot of truth. But sometimes—as we can learn from these three men—we might not know the best way to make use of the truths that we know.

`Look around at the natural world. Why does this alone show us how limited we are in what we know about even the simplest of things?`