---
title:  THE ENTRANCE OF ELIHU
date:   28/11/2016
---

### THE ENTRANCE OF ELIHU

(Job 32:1–5)

From Job 26 to 31, the suffering hero of this story, Job, gives his  nal speech to the three men. His speech is beautiful and emotional (full of strong feelings). But he continues the same argument he has been making all along: I do not deserve what has been happening to me. Period.

Again Job serves here as a good example of humans. Like Job, many people suffer things that they do not deserve. And the question—in many ways the hardest question of all—is, Why? In some cases, the answer to suffering is rather easy. People clearly bring the trouble on themselves. But so often, and especially in the case of Job, that is not what happens. And so the question of suffering remains.

As chapter 31 comes to a close, Job has been talking about the kind of life he has led. This life is one in which he does nothing wrong to deserve what is happening to him now. Then the  nal verse of the chapter reads: “The words of Job are ended” (Job 31:40).

`Read Job 32:1–5. What is happening here? And what is Elihu’s charge against Job and the other men?`

Here is the  rst time that this man, Elihu, is mentioned in the book of Job. He clearly hears some of the long discussions. But we are not told just when he appears on the scene. He must have come later, because he is not mentioned as being with the other three when they  rst come. But what we do know is that he is not satis ed with the answers he hears during the discussions. In fact, we are told four times in these  ve verses that Elihu becomes angry over what he hears. For the next six chapters, this man Elihu tries to explain the issues that all these men talked about in their discussions of the terrible suffering that struck Job.

Job 32:2 says that Elihu is angry with Job because he tries to make himself look right with God. But this view really is not a correct view of Job’s true position. What should Elihu’s words tell us about how careful we need to be in the ways that we interpret the words of others? How can we learn to think the best of what someone says rather than the worst?