---
title:  ELIHU’S DEFENSE OF GOD
date:   29/11/2016
---

### ELIHU’S DEFENSE OF GOD

(Job 34:10–15)

A lot has been written about Elihu and his speech. Some have thought of his speech as an important turning point in the direction of the conversation. But it is really not that easy to  nd where Elihu adds anything so new that it changes the conversation. Instead, Elihu seems to be giving the same arguments that the other three have given when they try to defend God against the charge of unfairness over the sufferings of Job.

`Read Job 34:10–15. What truths is Elihu saying here? How are they nearly the same as what the other men have said before? Elihu’s words are true. But why are they not proper for the current situation?`

Perhaps what we  nd with Elihu, as with these other men, is fear. It is the fear that God is not what they think Him to be. They want to believe in the goodness and the justice and the power of God. So what does Elihu do but tell truths about the goodness, the justice, and the power of God?

“ ‘His [God’s] eyes see how people live. He watches every step they take. There isn’t [is not] a dark place or deep shadow [of death] where those who do what is evil can hide’ ” (Job 34:21, 22, NIrV).

“ ‘God is mighty, but he doesn’t [does not] hate people. He’s [he is] mighty [strong] and he knows exactly what he’s [he is] going to do. He doesn’t [does not] keep alive those who are evil. Instead, he gives suffering people their rights. He watches over those who do what is right. He puts them on thrones as if they were kings. He honors them forever’ ” (Job 36:5–7, NIrV).

“ ‘We can’t [cannot] reach up to the Mighty One. He is lifted high because of his power. Everything he does is fair and right. So he doesn’t [does not] crush people. That’s [that is] why they have respect for him. He cares about all those who are wise’ ” (Job 37:23, 24, NIrV).

Suppose all these words were true. Then we easily could believe that Job is getting what he deserves. What else could his suffering mean? But what really is happening is that Elihu is trying to protect his own understanding of God in the face of the terrible evil that has happened to such a good man as Job.

`Have you ever faced a time when something happened that made you fearful for your faith? How did you answer? Looking back, what might you have done differently?`