---
title:  EVIL IS UNREASONABLE
date:   30/11/2016
---

### EVIL IS UNREASONABLE

(Ezekiel 28:12–17)

All four of these men are believers in God. They are believers in a God of justice. But they  nd themselves with a problem: What would be a good reason for Job’s situation that would agree with their beliefs about the character of God? Unfortunately, they end up taking a position that turns out to be wrong in their need to understand the evil that happens to Job.

Ellen G. White offers a powerful comment: “It is impossible to explain the beginning of sin or to give a reason for it. . . . Sin is an invader. No reason can be given for it. It is mysterious and unexplainable. To excuse it is to defend it. If an excuse for sin could be found, or a cause be shown for it, it would stop being sin.”—Adapted from The Great Controversy [War Between Christ and Satan], pages 492, 493.

Ellen G. White uses the word sin. But suppose we replaced that word with another word, one that has almost the same meaning: evil. Then the quote could read: It is impossible to explain the beginning of evil or to give a reason for it. . . . Evil is an invader. No reason can be given for it. It is mysterious and unexplainable.To excuse it is to defend it.If an excuse for evil could be found or a cause be shown for it, then it would stop being evil.

So often when a terrible event happens, people will say or think: “I do not understand this tragedy [very bad event].” Or “This tragedy does not make sense.” Job has been making this complaint all along.

If we could understand evil or if it made sense, then it would not be evil. Nor would it be that tragic, because it would serve a reasonable purpose.

`Read Ezekiel 28:12–17 about the fall of Satan and the beginning of evil. How much sense does his fall make?`

Here is a perfect being (person). He is created by a perfect God, in a perfect environment. He is honored, full of wisdom, perfect in beauty, covered in precious stones. He is an “anointed cherub (angel)” who is in the “holy mountain of God.” But even with all that and having been given so much, this perfect one ruins himself and lets evil take over. What could have been more unreasonable than the evil that ruined the devil?

`What is your experience with how unreasonable and unexplainable evil is?`