---
title:  THE CHALLENGE OF FAITH
date:   01/12/2016
---

THE CHALLENGE OF FAITH

(Review Job 1–2:10)

Certainly the main characters in the book of Job are just weak humans who see life “through a glass [mirror], darkly [dimly]” (1 Corinthians 13:12). Interesting, too, that in all these debates about the evil that happens to Job, none of the men, Job included, discusses the role of the devil. The devil is the real cause of all of Job’s problems. Job’s friends are very sure about how right they are, especially Elihu (read Job 36:1–4). But they fail to explain Job’s suffering. And, of course, Job knows that they have failed.

`Even with our understanding of the story’s greatcontroversy background, how well are we able to reason and explain the evil that happens to Job? Read Job 1–2:10 again. Even with all the causes of Job’s suffering shown to us, what other questions remain?`

We know well the opening chapters of Job. And we have a view of things that none of these men in the book of Job have. But even now, the issues remain hard to understand. As we learned, far from anything evil Job had done to bring this suffering upon himself, it is Job’s goodness that causes God to point him out to the devil. So did Job’s goodness and desire to be faithful to God lead to these terrible events happening to him? How do we understand this?

In the end, God wins His challenge with the devil, but we know the devil has not surrendered to defeat (Revelation 12:12). So what is the purpose of Job’s suffering? And also, whatever good comes out of what happens to Job, is it worth the death of all these people and all the suffering that Job goes through? If these questions remain for us (but more answers are coming), imagine all the questions that Job had!

And here is one of the most important lessons we can learn from the book of Job. We are to live by faith and not by sight. We are to trust in God and stay faithful to Him even when, like Job, we cannot reason or explain why things happen as they do. We do not live by faith when everything can be explained fully. We live by faith when, like Job, we trust and obey God, even when we cannot make sense of what is happening around us.

`What are the things you must trust God for, even though you do not understand them? How can you continue to build that trust, even when you do not have answers?`