---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   02/12/2016
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:

In a discussion about the question of faith and reason, author John Hedley Brooke wrote about the German philosopher1 Immanuel Kant (1724–1804). Kant wanted to understand the limits of human knowledge, especially when it came to the working of God. For Kant, “the question of making right the ways of God to man was one of faith, not of knowledge. As his example of a true stand in the face of terrible suffering, Kant chose Job. Job had lost everything except a clear conscience. In his surrender to God’s will, Job had been right to refuse to accept the advice of friends who had tried to explain all the terrible things that happened to him. The strength of Job’s position was in knowing what he did not know: he wondered what God meant by allowing him to suffer these terrible things.”—Adapted from Science and Religion (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006), pages 207, 208.

Job’s friends thought they could give an answer for what had happened to Job. They thought the real cause was Job’s sin, and the result was his suffering. What could be clearer and more reasonable than that? But their reasoning was wrong. It is a powerful example of the fact that what God does and what really happens in this life do not necessarily follow our understanding of how God works in the world that He created.

### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
- `In all the long speeches about Job’s situation and why it happens, nobody mentions how the devil is involved. Why is that so? What does it tell us about how limited these men are in their understanding, even though they had some truths? What could their lack of knowledge teach us about our own, even though we know more truths than they do?`

- `“Suppose we depend upon our own wisdom for success in the things that we have been given to manage. How, then, are we taking a burden that God has not given us and trying to carry on without His help? . . . But when we really believe that God loves us and means to do us good, we shall stop worrying about the future. We shall trust God as a child trusts a loving parent. Then our troubles and suffering will disappear. They disappear because our will is enveloped [surrounded by; wrapped up] in the will of God.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pages 100, 101. How can we learn this kind of trust and faith? What choices are we making now that will make our faith either stronger or weaker?`

##### Definitions
1. **philosopher**—a person who studies ideas about knowledge, truth, and the nature and meaning of life.