---
title:  Further Thought
date:  03/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Crossing the Jordan,” pp. 481, 482, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “Entering the Promised Land,” p. 175, in The Story of Redemption.

“In His promises and warnings, Jesus means me. God so loved the world, that He gave His only-begotten Son, that I by believing in Him, might not perish, but have everlasting life. The experiences related in God’s word are to be my experiences. Prayer and promise, precept and warning, are mine. . . . As faith thus receives and assimilates the principles of truth, they become a part of the being and the motive power of the life. The word of God, received into the soul, molds the thoughts, and enters into the development of character.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 390, 391.

“There is not a point that needs to be dwelt upon more earnestly, repeated more frequently, or established more firmly in the minds of all than the impossibility of fallen man meriting anything by his own best good works. Salvation is through faith in Jesus Christ alone.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, p. 19.

**Discussion Questions**:

`However different the circumstances of Joshua’s life and experiences are from ours, what spiritual principles can we take away from his life that we can apply to our own? Why, though, must we always keep context in mind when seeking to draw analogies?`

`Discuss the relationship between God’s promises and our obedience to Him. How do they complement one another? What are the dangers of overemphasizing one at the expense of the other? That is, what danger comes from pushing the law at the expense of eclipsing grace? Or of pushing grace at the expense of eclipsing the law?`

`Based on this week’s lesson, how would you define success from a biblical perspective? What place does prosperity have in a Christian definition of success?`

`Imagine how Joshua might have felt, following Moses. What promise did God give to him that surely sustained him (see Josh. 1:5) in his great responsibilities?`