---
title:  Sharing the Word
date:  08/08/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ps. 119:105, Jer. 23:29, Heb. 1:1–3, 2 Tim. 3:14–17, 1 John 1:7–9, Eccles. 3:1, 2 Tim. 4:2.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘So shall My word be that goes forth from My mouth; it shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it’ ” (Isaiah 55:11, NKJV).

When we witness, we speak of Jesus. But what would we know about Jesus without the Bible? In fact, how much would we know about the great controversy, the love of God, the birth, life, ministry, death, resurrection, and return of our Lord if we did not have the Scriptures?

Although nature reveals the majesty and power of God, it doesn’t reveal the plan of salvation. Jesus, through the Person of the Holy Spirit, is the “true Light which gives light to every man coming into the world” (John 1:9, NKJV). Still, without the Word of God to fully explain divine truth, the Holy Spirit’s revelation to our hearts is limited. God’s written Word is the clearest and fullest revelation of Jesus, the Living Word.

Although the religious leaders studied the Word of God, many missed its primary message. Said Jesus: “ ‘You search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of Me’ ” (John 5:39, NKJV). Rightly understood, every teaching of the Bible reflects the beauty of Jesus’ character. When we share the Word of God, our primary goal is not to prove that we are right and that the other person is wrong; it is to reveal Jesus in each facet of the truth we share.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 15._

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Men have been unwearied in their efforts to obscure the plain, simple meaning of the Scriptures, and to make them contradict their own testimony; but like the ark upon the billowy deep, the word of God outrides the storms that threaten it with destruction. As the mine has rich veins of gold and silver hidden beneath the surface, so that all must dig who would discover its precious stores, so the Holy Scriptures have treasures of truth that are revealed only to the earnest, humble, prayerful seeker. God designed the Bible to be a lessonbook to all mankind, in childhood, youth, and manhood, and to be studied through all time. He gave His word to men as a revelation of Himself. Every new truth discerned is a fresh disclosure of the character of its Author. The study of the Scriptures is the means divinely ordained to bring men into closer connection with their Creator and to give them a clearer knowledge of His will. It is the medium of communication between God and man. {GC 69.2}

As the plant takes root in the soil, so we are to take deep root in Christ. As the plant receives the sunshine, the dew, and the rain, we are to open our hearts to the Holy Spirit. The work is to be done “not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit, saith the Lord of hosts.” Zechariah 4:6. If we keep our minds stayed upon Christ, He will come unto us “as the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.” Hosea 6:3. As the Sun of Righteousness, He will arise upon us “with healing in His wings.” Malachi 4:2. We shall “grow as the lily.” We shall “revive as the corn, and grow as the vine.” Hosea 14:5, 7. By constantly relying upon Christ as our personal Saviour, we shall grow up into Him in all things who is our head. {COL 66.1}

The water that Christ referred to was the revelation of His grace in His Word. His Spirit, His teaching, is as a satisfying fountain to every soul.... In Christ is fullness of joy forevermore.... Christ’s gracious presence in His Word is ever speaking to the soul, representing Him as the well of living water to refresh the thirsting. It is our privilege to have a living, abiding Saviour. He is the source of spiritual power implanted within us, and His influence will flow forth in words and actions, refreshing all within the sphere of our influence, begetting in them desires and aspirations for strength and purity, for holiness and peace, and for that joy which brings with it no sorrow. This is the result of an indwelling Saviour. {5BC 1134.3}