---
title:  Symbols of God’s Word
date:  09/08/2020
---

`Read Psalm 119:105, Jeremiah 23:29, Luke 8:11, and Matthew 4:4. What five symbols are used to describe the Word of God in these passages? Why do you think these five symbols were chosen to represent the Word of God?`

The varied symbols used in these passages describe some of the primary functions of the Word of God. When we share the Scriptures with others, it is like a light that illuminates life. Jesus, “the light of the world,” breaks through the darkness of their misunderstanding about who God is and the nature of His character. Minds darkened with a misunderstanding of God are illuminated by the Holy Spirit through the Word of God.

According to Jeremiah, the Word of God is like a fire and a hammer. It consumes the dross of sin in our lives and breaks our hard hearts. When we help people see in Scripture the glory of Jesus, their hard hearts are broken, and the fire of His love consumes the dross of selfishness, greed, lust, and self-centeredness.

The Word of God is also likened to seed. The key characteristic of seed is that it is life-giving. Seed takes time to grow. Not all seeds germinate at the same time. Not all plants grow at the same rate. But under the right conditions, the life in the seed bursts forth through the soil into new life. When we plant the seed of the Word of God in the hearts and minds of others, we will not always see immediate results, but silently the seed is growing, and in God’s own time, if they respond to the Holy Spirit’s promptings, it will produce a harvest for God’s kingdom.

Jesus likens His word to nourishing bread. As many of us know, there are few things as satisfying as a good loaf of bread. The Word of God satisfies the hunger of the soul and nourishes our inner spiritual longings. As you share the promises of the Word with others and help them discover that Jesus is the Word, their lives will be transformed by His goodness, charmed by His love, amazed at His grace, and satisfied in His presence.

`Again, think about the truths that we know only from the Bible. What should this tell us about how much we should treasure what it teaches us?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"As Christ sat looking upon the party that waited for the bridegroom, He told His disciples the story of the ten virgins, by their experience illustrating the experience of the church that shall live just before His second coming. {COL 406.2}

The two classes of watchers represent the two classes who profess to be waiting for their Lord. They are called virgins because they profess a pure faith. By the lamps is represented the word of God. The psalmist says, “Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.” Psalm 119:105. The oil is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. {COL 406.3}"

"Ever since the fall of man, Christ had been the Revealer of truth to the world. By Him the incorruptible seed, “the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever,” is communicated to men. 1 Peter 1:23. In that first promise spoken to our fallen race in Eden, Christ was sowing the gospel seed. But it is to His personal ministry among men and to the work which He thus established that the parable of the sower especially applies. {COL 37.1}

The word of God is the seed. Every seed has in itself a germinating principle. In it the life of the plant is enfolded. So there is life in God’s word. Christ says, “The words that I speak unto you, they are Spirit, and they are life.” John 6:63. “He that heareth My word, and believeth on Him that sent Me, hath everlasting life.” John 5:24. In every command and in every promise of the word of God is the power, the very life of God, by which the command may be fulfilled and the promise realized. He who by faith receives the word is receiving the very life and character of God. {COL 38.1}"

"Is not my word like as a fire? saith the Lord; and like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces? Jeremiah 23:29. {TDG 23.1}

It may be that much work needs to be done in your character building, that you are a rough stone which must be squared and polished before it is fit to fill a place in God’s temple. You need not be surprised if with hammer and chisel God cuts away your defects of character, until you are prepared to fill the place He has ready for you. No human being can accomplish this work. Only by God can it be done. And be assured that He will not strike one useless blow. His every blow is struck in love, for your eternal good and happiness. He knows your infirmities, and works to restore, not to destroy. {TDG 23.3}

Of the poor, fainting soul, tired of looking to humanity only to be betrayed and forgotten, Christ says, “Let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; and he shall make peace with me” (Isaiah 27:5). {TDG 23.5}"