---
title:  The Creative Power of God’s Word
date:  10/08/2020
---

`Compare Hebrews 1:1–3, Hebrews 4:12, and Psalm 33:6, 9. What do these passages tell us about the power of the Word of God? `

The Word of God is a living Word. It carries with it the power to accomplish the things that it declares. Human words can speak of what is, but God speaks of things that are not yet done and then creates them by the power of His word. The Word of God is a creative Word. The audible Word that proceeds from His mouth has the power to create everything that it proclaims.

In the Creation story of Genesis 1, the expression “God said” is used repeatedly (Gen. 1:3, 6, 11, 14, 20, 24, 26, 29). God’s declarative words had such power that when He spoke, dry land appeared, plants sprouted, flowers blossomed, fruit trees flourished, and animals sprang forth.

There is a fascinating Hebrew word used in Genesis 1 for the creative activity of God. It is the word bara. In this particular form, it is used of God’s activity to create something from nothing. The verb is used only when God is the subject. That is, only God alone can bara, and He does so through the power of His spoken word.

God not only created this world through the power of His word, but He sustains and upholds it through His word, as well. The same power that is in the spoken Word of God is in His written word. The same Holy Spirit that was active in Creation was active in inspiring Scripture. He is present when we read the Bible or share it with others. There is life-giving, life-changing, creative power in the Word of God. “The creative energy that called the worlds into existence is in the word of God. This word imparts power; it begets life. Every command is a promise; accepted by the will, received into the soul, it brings with it the life of the Infinite One. It transforms the nature and re-creates the soul in the image of God.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 126.

As we personally grasp the promises found in the Word of God, our lives are changed, and as we help others to grasp these amazing promises, the Holy Spirit will change their lives, too.

`Imagine: God spoke and it was. How can we grasp what this means? What does this amazing reality tell us about His power? Why should this truth about God’s creative power be comforting to us?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"The material world is under God’s control. The laws that govern all nature are obeyed by nature. Everything speaks and acts the will of the Creator. The clouds, the rain, the dew, the sunshine, the showers, the wind, the storm, all are under the supervision of God, and yield implicit obedience to Him who employs them. The tiny spear of grass bursts its way through the earth, first the blade, then the ear, and then the full corn in the ear. The Lord uses these, His obedient servants, to do His will. The fruit is first seen in the bud, enclosing the future pear, peach, or apple, and the Lord develops these in their proper season, because they do not resist His working. {LHU 66.2}

The same creative energy that brought the world into existence is still exerted in upholding the universe and continuing the operations of nature. The hand of God guides the planets in their orderly march through the heavens. It is not because of inherent power that year by year the earth continues her motion round the sun and produces her bounties. The word of God controls the elements. {LHU 67.4}"

"Those who have a true knowledge of God will not become so infatuated with the laws of matter or the operations of nature as to overlook, or refuse to acknowledge, the continual working of God in nature. Nature is not God, nor was it ever God. The voice of nature testifies of God, but nature is not God. As His created work, it simply bears a testimony to God’s power. Deity is the author of nature. The natural world has, in itself, no power but that which God supplies. There is a personal God, the Father; there is a personal Christ, the Son. ... {1SM 293.1}

The psalmist says: “The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard” (Psalm 19:1-3). Some may suppose that these grand things in the natural world are God. They are not God. All these wonders in the heavens are only doing the work appointed them. They are the Lord’s agencies. God is the superintendent, as well as the Creator, of all things. The Divine Being is engaged in upholding the things that He has created. The same hand that holds the mountains and balances them in position, guides the worlds in their mysterious march around the sun. {1SM 293.2}"

The revelation of Himself that God has given in His Word is for our study. This we may seek to understand. But beyond this we are not to penetrate.... None are to indulge in speculation regarding His nature. Here silence is eloquence. The Omniscient One is above discussion. {FLB 40.6}