---
title:  The Benefits of Studying God’s Word
date:  11/08/2020
---

There are multiple benefits of studying the Word of God. The apostle Peter tells us that through the promises of Scripture we become “partakers of the divine nature” (2 Pet. 1:4). James speaks of the “implanted word, which is able to save your souls” (James 1:21, NKJV). Paul adds that “ ‘the word of His grace . . . is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified’ ” (Acts 20:32, NKJV). The Bible has a redemptive purpose. Seeing Jesus in all of Scripture, we are changed. By beholding Him in His word, we become like Him (2 Cor. 3:18). “It is a law both of the intellectual and the spiritual nature that by beholding we become changed. The mind gradually adapts itself to the subjects upon which it is allowed to dwell.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 555.

`Read 2 Timothy 3:14–17 and John 17:14–17. What additional benefits come from studying the Word of God?`

Writing to his young companion Timothy, the apostle Paul urges him to be faithful to Scripture and shares the benefits of studying the inspired Word. According to Paul, the Bible is “profitable for doctrine.” It reveals truth and exposes error. It outlines God’s plan for the human race. It reproves our sins, corrects our erroneous thinking, and instructs us in righteousness. The Scriptures reveal the righteousness of Christ. They lead us from the folly of our own sinfulness to the beauty of His righteousness. When we see Jesus’ unselfish love in contrast to our self-centeredness, we stand amazed. As we behold in Scripture the depth of His compassion and caring, our lives are changed. When we share His word with others, they, too, are radically transformed. Beholding Jesus in His word, we become more like Him. Witnessing is not about sharing what we think or even what we believe. It is all about sharing the eternal truths found in the Word of God. When the Word of God has incredibly blessed our lives, we have the credibility to tell others how it can bless their lives, too.

`Think about a time of difficulty that you personally faced and how the Word of God proved to be a strength to you. What did you learn from that experience?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"The ten holy precepts spoken by Christ upon Sinai’s mount were the revelation of the character of God, and made known to the world the fact that He had jurisdiction over the whole human heritage. That law of ten precepts of the greatest love that can be presented to man is the voice of God from heaven speaking to the soul in promise, “This do, and you will not come under the dominion and control of Satan.” There is not a negative in that law, although it may appear thus. {1BC 1105.2}

The Lord has given His holy commandments to be a wall of protection around His created beings, and those who will keep themselves from the defilement of appetite and passion may become partakers of the divine nature. {1BC 1105.4}"

"It is true that the apostle has said that there are some things that are hard to be understood in the Scriptures. So there are. And if it were not that there are subjects that are difficult and hard to be understood, well might the skeptic who now pleads that God has given a revelation that cannot be understood—well might he, I say—have something else to plead. God’s infinity is so much higher than we are, that it is impossible for man to comprehend the mystery of godliness. {7BC 919.3}

Angels of God looked with amazement upon Christ, who took upon Himself the form of man and humbly united His divinity with humanity in order that He might minister to fallen man. It is a marvel among the heavenly angels. God has told us that He did do it, and we are to accept the Word of God just as it reads. {7BC 919.4}"

"From a child Timothy had known the Scriptures. Religion was the atmosphere of his home. The piety of his home life was ... pure, sensible, and uncorrupted by false sentiments.... The Word of God was the rule which guided Timothy. He received his instruction, line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little, and there a little. And the spiritual power of these lessons kept him pure in speech and free from all corrupting sentiments. His home instructors cooperated with God in educating this young man to bear the burdens that were to come upon him at an early age.... {ML 34.3}

The lessons of the Bible have a moral and a religious influence upon the character as they are wrought into the practical life. Timothy learned and practiced these lessons. He had no specially wonderful talents, but his work was valuable because he used his God-given abilities as consecrated gifts in the service of God. His intelligent knowledge of the truth and of experimental piety gave him distinction and influence. The Holy Spirit found in Timothy a mind that could be molded and fashioned to become a temple for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.... {ML 34.4}"