---
title:  Applying God’s Word
date:  12/08/2020
---

Someone has counted more than three thousand promises in the Word of God. Each of these promises comes from the heart of a loving God who “is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us” (Eph. 3:20, NKJV). The promises of God are commitments that He makes to each one of us. As we claim these promises by faith and teach other people to claim them, the blessings of heaven flow into our lives. The apostle Paul emphasizes this divine reality in Romans 8: “He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?” (Rom. 8:32, NKJV). The apostle Peter clarifies this promise, declaring that “His divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness” (2 Pet. 1:3, NKJV). Through Christ’s death on the cross, and His victory over Satan and the principalities and powers of hell, He has provided everything necessary for us to live a godly, spiritual life. He also promises to provide for our basic, physical needs.

`Compare 1 John 1:7–9 and Philippians 4:13, 19. Although these promises are quite different, what do they teach us about the character of God? How have these promises impacted your life?`

The promises that we have read in these passages each speak of something different, but the picture of God they give us is very similar. They reveal a God of loving forgiveness, infinite power, and care for our basic needs. They give us the assurance that God cares deeply for us.

`Read Hebrews 3:19; 4:1–3; and Matthew 13:58. What do these verses tell us about the need for faith?`

There are so many wonderful promises of God in the Bible, and when by faith we claim the promises of the Word of God and believe them because Christ has promised, the blessings of those promises become ours. It is a lack of faith in God’s ability to do what He has promised in His word that limits the fulfillment of God’s promises in our lives. Pray that God will lead you this week to someone who needs the hopeful promises found in the Word of God.

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ has made every provision for us to be strong. He has given us His Holy Spirit, whose office is to bring to our remembrance all the promises that Christ has made, that we may have peace and a sweet sense of forgiveness. If we will but keep our eyes fixed on the Saviour and trust in His power, we shall be filled with a sense of security; for the righteousness of Christ will become our righteousness. {ML 45.5}

"The Scriptures are to be received as God’s word to us, not written merely, but spoken. {MH 122.2}

So with all the promises of God’s word. In them He is speaking to us individually, speaking as directly as if we could listen to His voice. It is in these promises that Christ communicates to us His grace and power. They are leaves from that tree which is “for the healing of the nations.” Revelation 22:2. Received, assimilated, they are to be the strength of the character, the inspiration and sustenance of the life. Nothing else can have such healing power. Nothing besides can impart the courage and faith which give vital energy to the whole being. {MH 122.3}"

He who has given his life to God in ministry to His children is linked with Him who has all the resources of the universe at His command. His life is bound up by the golden chain of the immutable promises with the life of God. The Lord will not fail him in the hour of suffering and need. “My God shall supply all your need according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus.” Philippians 4:19. And in the hour of final need the merciful shall find refuge in the mercy of the compassionate Saviour and shall be received into everlasting habitations. {MB 24.1}

"By study of the Scriptures and earnest prayer seek to obtain clear conceptions of your duty, and then faithfully perform it. It is essential that you cultivate faithfulness in little things, and in so doing you will acquire habits of integrity in greater responsibilities.... Every event of life is great for good or for evil. The mind needs to be trained by daily tests, that it may acquire power to stand in any difficult position. In the days of trial and of peril you will need to be fortified to stand firmly for the right, independent of every opposing influence. {AG 113.5}

Jesus consents to bear our burdens only when we trust Him. He is saying: “Come unto me, all ye weary and heavy laden; give Me your load; trust Me to do the work that it is impossible for the human agent to do.” Let us trust Him. Worry is blind and cannot discern the future. But Jesus sees the end from the beginning, and in every difficulty He has His way prepared to bring relief. Abiding in Christ, we can do all things through Him who strengthens us. {AG 113.6}"