---
title:  The Road to Faith
date:   05/08/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 3:21–25; Leviticus 18:5; Romans 3:9–19; 1 Corinthians 9:20; Romans 3:1, 2; Romans 8:1–4.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Are God’s laws and God’s promises against each other? Of course not! [Suppose] we could be saved by his laws, then God would not have had to give us a different way to get out of the grip of sin—for the Scriptures [Bible] insist we are all its prisoners. The only way out is through faith in Jesus Christ; the way of escape is open to all who believe him”(Galatians 3:22,TLB).

Homing pigeons are trained to fly home from a great distance. They can fly hundreds of miles a day and arrive at the end of their journey with great skill. But even the best homing pigeons have gotten lost and not returned home. The worst known case happened in England when about 55,000 birds never came back to their lofts.

Most of us have gotten lost at least once. And sometimes we can lose our way, as the pigeons did, even after we accept Christ.

The good news is that God has not left us alone. He has mapped out the road to faith.The“map”of this“road”is found in the gospel. And the road to faith includes the law. Many people try to separate the law from the gospel. Some even see the law and the gospel as fighting against each other. This view is dead wrong. And it often can lead to terrible results. Without the law, we would have no gospel. Indeed, it is hard to understand the gospel without the law.