---
title:  “Held prisoners by the Law”
date:   07/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:23, NCV_

In Galatians 3:23, Paul writes, “The law held us in prison like slaves. We were kept there until the one [Jesus] to believe in should come” (WE). Galatians 3:23 also is translated as “before faith in Christ came” (NIrV). But the verse in Greek says, “Before the faith” came. Here, Paul shows the place the law had in the lives of the people before and after Christ (Galatians 3:24). So, the wording “the faith” most likely means “belief” instead of the Christian faith, over all.

`In Galatians 3:22, 23, Paul says the Jews were “held prisoners by the law” (NCV) before the coming of Christ. The KJV translates this verse as “kept [placed] under the law.”What does Paul mean by “under the law”?`

Paul uses the wording “under the law” 12 times in his letters. “Under the law” means under the power, or penalty, of the law. Paul’s attackers in Galatia were trying to be saved by obeying the law. But Paul already made it clear that being saved by works is impossible. Why? Because without Christ we are not able to obey the law. Later, Paul points out what the Galatians really were doing when they wanted to be saved by their works. They were rejecting Christ.

The meaning of the wording, “under the law” includes being found guilty of breaking the law (Romans 6:14, 15). The law cannot free us from the guilt of breaking the law. Instead, the law acts like a jailer or a prison guard. It “locks up” all who have broken it. And all people are guilty of breaking the law. So, by breaking it, we bring ourselves under a death sentence. In tomorrow’s study, we will learn more about the use of the word “guard” in Galatians 3:23 (NKJV).This word shows that Paul is talking about our guilt when he uses the wording “under the law.”

Another Greek word, ennomos, also is translated often as “under the law.” But it really means “within the law.” It means living within the requirements of the law by being joined together with Christ (1 Corinthians 9:21). We cannot obey the law or be made holy apart from Christ. Only those who are made holy through faith will live (Galatians 3:11). But, this truth does not make the law useless. Instead, it shows only that the law cannot give us eternal life.