---
title:  “Guarded by the Law”
date:   08/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:19–24, NIrV_

Paul sums up his thoughts about the law in two points: (1) The law does not undo God’s promise made to Abraham (Galatians 3:15–20). And (2) the law is not against the promise (Galatians 3:21, 22).

What is the purpose of the law then? Paul asks this very question, “Then why was the law given at all?” (Galatians 3:19, NIrV). He answers his question in the same verse, “It was added because of human sin.” Paul uses three more words, or sets of words, to help us understand this idea. These words explain more fully what the law was meant to do. They are: “guarded” (verse 23), “locked up” (verse 23), and “in charge of” (verse 24).

`Read and pray over the meaning of Galatians 3:19–24. What is Paul saying in these verses about the law?`

The Greek word translated as “guarded” (verse 23) means “to protect.” It can have a negative meaning. But in the New Testament, it has a positive meaning. It can mean to “watch over” or to be “kept safe” (Philippians 4:7; 1 Peter 1:5, NIrV). The same is true of the word translated as “locked up” (Galatians 3:23, NIrV). In Joshua 6:1 and Jeremiah 13:19, the word is translated to mean “shut tight” and “guarded closely.” These examples show that this word can have a positive or a negative meaning. The meaning depends on how it is used.

`Read Romans 3:1, 2; Deuteronomy 7:12–24; and Leviticus 18:20–30. What benefits did the law provide the children of Israel? (By “law,” we mean two laws. First, the moral law. The moral law is God’s Ten Commandments. And second, the ceremonial law.The ceremonial law governed the sacrifices and feasts that pointed to Jesus’ death.)`

The law was not a curse God placed on Israel. It was meant to be a blessing.The sacrifices could not remove sin. But they pointed to Jesus who could. And its laws protected Israel from the sins of other nations.

`Good things can be used in the wrong way. How does this idea help us to understand the problems Paul faced when helping people to understand the purpose for God’s laws?`