---
title:  The Law as our “Teacher”
date:   09/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:24, NLV_

`Read Galatians 3:23. In this verse, Paul says we were “guarded” and “locked up” by the law (NIrV). Now read verse 24.What does Paul,in this verse, say the law does for us?`

The word translated as “teacher” (NLV) comes from the Greek word paidagogos. Some Bibles translate the word as “schoolmaster” (KJV) or even “guardian” (ESV). But no one word fully captures its meaning. The paidagogos was a slave in Roman society. He was placed over his master’s sons from the time they turned six or seven until they became men. The paidagogos took care of the young boys’ needs. He prepared their baths. He provided them with food and clothes. He protected them from danger. The paidagogos also made sure the master’s sons went to school and did their homework. He taught them the right way to live.And he was expected to help them live out those beliefs.

Some paidagogoi, or teachers, certainly must have been kind and even loved by their masters’ sons. But these teachers were very strict. Some of them threatened and scolded their students to make them obey. Some teachers even used whippings and beatings.

Paul’s description of the law as a strict teacher helps us understand even more fully what Paul thought the law was meant to do. The law was added to teach and to point out sin. The law scolds us, and it shows us our guilt. But even this “negative” side of the law is a blessing. Why? Because God uses it for our benefit. The law tells us we are guilty. And the guilt the law brings drives us to Christ. So, the law and the gospel do not disagree. Instead, God created them both to work together to save us.

“In Galatians 3:24, the Holy Spirit speaks to us through Paul. The Spirit talks about the moral law. [The moral law is the Ten Commandments.] The law shows us our sin. It causes us to feel our need of Christ.And it causes us to run to Him for forgiveness and peace. And it causes us to feel sorrow for our sins and to turn from sin to Jesus.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 234.

`Read Matthew 5:28 and Romans 7:6. What does the law point out to you about your actions and your words? How does your answer prove Paul’s point that the law is a strict teacher that shows us our sin?`