---
title:  The Law and the believer
date:   10/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:25_

Many people think Paul’s words in Galatians 3:25 mean that he is completely dismissing or ignoring the law. But that belief cannot be correct. Why? Because Paul makes positive statements about the law elsewhere in the Bible.

So, what does Paul really mean in this verse?

First, he means we are no longer under the law’s judgment of guilt. Instead, we belong to Christ. As His, we are under the power of His grace (Romans 6:14, 15). Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. And being under grace sets us free. It permits Christ to work within us. We no longer fear being judged for any mistakes we made in the past. True freedom in the gospel means being free from fear and judgment. This freedom is completely different from no longer having to obey the law. Sadly, some people think true freedom in Christ means no longer obeying the law. But disobeying the law is sin. And sin is not freedom (John 8:34).

`Read Romans 8:1–3. What does it mean to be no longer judged guilty by the law? How does this wonderful truth change how we live our lives?`

We are forgiven through Christ. And our relationship to the law is different. We now are called to live lives that are pleasing to Jesus (1 Thessalonians 4:1). Paul calls this life being “led by the Spirit” (Galatians 5:18, NIrV). This new life does not mean there is no need for the Ten Commandments. Of course we need them! After all, the moral law tells us what sin is. And God writes His law in our hearts (Hebrews 8:10).

The law shows us who God is. We show who God is by obeying His law. But the law is not just a set of rules. Obeying the law means following the example of Jesus. He does for us what the law never could do. He lives the law within us. He makes it possible for us to obey the law (Romans 8:4). And He gives us this power to obey the law as we never could before.

`Read Romans 8:4. What is Paul saying here? How have you seen this promise take place in your own life? At the same time, why must salvation always be based only on what Christ does for us and nothing else?`