---
title:  Additional thought
date:   11/08/2017
---

“I am asked which law it is in Galatians that Paul calls our teacher. Is it the law governing sacrifices or the Ten Commandments? I answer: it is both.

“Jesus became the foundation for the entire law of sacrifices. Those sacrifices pointed to His future death. The blood of the sacrifices was a symbol of Christ’s blood to be shed for the world at the cross. God planned the whole system of sacrifices to show humans how He would save them. But not everyone would accept this plan. For example, Abel died because Cain rejected God’s plan for being saved. Cain refused the shedding of blood in his behalf.For it taught that all humans are sinners in need of a Savior. But Abel accepted what Cain would not. And in this way, the law of sacrifices started its work as a schoolmaster. It brought sinful humans to Christ.

“All who took part in the service of sacrifices were being taught about Christ’s work of saving humans. The service was meant to create in every heart a love for God’s law.The law of God is the law of His kingdom.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 233.

“The Ten Commandments are not to be thought of as a set of negative rules. Instead they should be seen as a law of mercy. The rules of the law guarantee our happiness if we obey them. So, we must receive the law of Christ into our hearts. Then it will work in us to make us pure. And it will bring us joy in heaven. To those who obey the law, it is a wall of protection.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 235.

**Discussion questions**

`1. What promises does the Bible give of victory over sin? How can we make these promises real in our lives? At the same time, why must we be so careful that our hope of salvation fully rests on Christ’s victory for us?`

`2. We often hear Christians say the law has been done away with. But these same Christians will speak out against sin. So they really do not mean the law is done away with at all. Instead, what do they mean by that claim? (Hint: Which commandment do they usually say we no longer need to obey?)`

**Summary**: The law was given to point sinners to Christ. The law is a guardian and schoolmaster. It teaches us about God and protects us from evil. But it also points out our sin. It shows us our guilt and our need of Christ.
