---
title:  Press Together
date:  29/12/2021
---

What did the apostle advise the readers to do in view of their situation? What can we learn from Hebrews for our own benefit? Let us analyze how God helped Elijah recover from his discouragement.

`Read 1 Kings 19:5–18. What did God do to restore the faith of Elijah, His servant?`

The story of God’s dealings with Elijah after Carmel is fascinating because it shows the tender care and wisdom with which God ministers to those who are under distress and who struggle to regain faith. God did several things for Elijah. First, He cared for his physical needs. He provided food and let him rest. Then, in the cave, He kindly reproved him—“What are you doing here, Elijah?” (1 Kings 19:9, NKJV)—and helped him gain a deeper understanding of how He works and fulfills His purposes. God was not in the wind, the earthquake, or the fire—but in a still small voice. Then, God gave Elijah a work to do and reassured him.

`Read Hebrews 2:1, Hebrews 3:12–14, Hebrews 5:11–6:3, and Hebrews 10:19–25. What did Paul suggest that believers should do?`

Throughout Hebrews we can find several instructions that the apostle gave the readers to help them recover their original strength and faith. One aspect that Paul emphasizes is the care of the physical needs of their fellow believers. He suggests that they should practice hospitality and visit those in prison, which implied providing for their needs. The apostle exhorts the readers to be generous, remembering that God will not abandon them (Heb. 13:1–6). Paul also reproved them and encouraged them. He warned them not to gradually “drift away” (Heb. 2:1, ESV) and not to have “an evil heart of unbelief” (Heb. 3:12), and he encouraged them to grow in their understanding of the faith (Heb. 5:11–6:3). He also remarked on the importance of consistent attendance at church meetings (Heb. 10:25). In summary, he not only suggested that they press together, encourage one another, and stir up love and good works, but he also lifted up Jesus and His ministry in the heavenly sanctuary in their behalf (Heb. 8:1, 2; Heb. 12:1–4).---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Elijah’s retreat on Mount Horeb, though hidden from man, was known to God; and the weary and discouraged prophet was not left to struggle alone with the powers of darkness that were pressing upon him. At the entrance to the cave wherein Elijah had taken refuge, God met with him, through a mighty angel sent to inquire into his needs and to make plain the divine purpose for Israel.<br/>
Not until Elijah had learned to trust wholly in God could he complete his work for those who had been seduced into Baal worship. The signal triumph on the heights of Carmel had opened the way for still greater victories; yet from the wonderful opportunities opening before him, Elijah had been turned away by the threat of Jezebel. The man of God must be made to understand the weakness of his present position as compared with the vantage ground the Lord would have him occupy.—_Prophets and Kings_, p. 167.

We can do nothing without courage and perseverance. Speak words of hope and courage to the poor and the disheartened. If need be, give tangible proof of your interest by helping them when they come into strait places. Those who have had many advantages should remember that they themselves still err in many things, and that it is painful to them when their errors are pointed out and there is held up before them a comely pattern of what they should be. Remember that kindness will accomplish more than censure.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 196.

Satan has ability to suggest doubts and to devise objections to the pointed testimony that God sends, and many think it a virtue, a mark of intelligence in them, to be unbelieving and to question and quibble. Those who desire to doubt will have plenty of room. God does not propose to remove all occasion for unbelief. He gives evidence, which must be carefully investigated with a humble mind and a teachable spirit, and all should decide from the weight of evidence. . . . God gives sufficient evidence for the candid mind to believe; but he who turns from the weight of evidence because there are a few things which he cannot make plain to his finite understanding will be left in the cold, chilling atmosphere of unbelief and questioning doubts, and will make shipwreck of faith.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, pp. 675, 676.

When a person becomes of age, we expect from him a corresponding intelligence, according to his years and opportunities. . . . But if we expect this manifestation of growing intelligence in the child, as he advances in years, should we not also expect to see the Christian grow in grace and experience? . . .<br/>
God does not desire you to remain novices. He needs in His work everything that you can gain here in the lines of mental culture and clear discernment. He desires to have you reach the very highest round of the ladder, and then step off it into the kingdom of God.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 330.