---
title:  A New Kind of Community
date:   17/02/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Acts 25, 26**

**A New Kind of Community**

Believers began to look to America as a shelter from persecution in the seventeenth century. By 1631, Puritans in particular had established thriving colonies in Massachusetts Bay and along the New England coast. These Puritans set about establishing a theocratic form of government, envisioning that they would be a new Israel. Massachusetts’ early laws demanded regular church attendance and tithe paying. Lawmakers declared blasphemy, witchcraft, adultery, homosexuality, worship of other gods, and declining infant baptism punishable by death. People suspected of speaking ill of pastoral leadership or expressing different views from those being preached were arraigned before church tribunals and received civil punishments. Roger Williams, a fellow Puritan immigrant from England who was initially invited to preach at the church in Massachusetts, was condemned and banished by one such trial for advocating for the complete separation of church and state and had to rely on the nearby Native American tribes to survive the harsh winter. Without that friendship, which he had been fostering for some time, he surely would have died. Evidently, the Puritans had come to America looking for religious freedom for themselves but not for others. The persecuted had again become the persecutors.

Several months after his banishment, Roger Williams secured a charter from the English monarchy to found the colony of Rhode Island. Williams made sure this new colony would never require its citizens and leaders to be of a certain religion. With Williams as governor, the new colony saw a great influx of religious outcasts such as Baptists, Quakers, and Jews. All were welcome and equal under the law. Rhode Island provided a safe place for its people to worship as they saw fit.

In Rhode Island, Roger Williams cofounded the first Baptist church in America, structuring it to be completely independent from the state according to the New Testament model of religious institutions. This week’s lesson will focus on how the apostle Paul urged civic leaders to leave religious matters alone, and how his commitment to the gospel drove him to sometimes defend his rights, sometimes surrender them depending on the situation.

### inScribe

Write out Acts 25 and 26 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Acts 25:17–22. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._