---
title:  Civil and Religious Accusations
date:   18/02/2024
---

### inGest

Much can be learned about religious liberty and the separation of church and state from the book of Acts. No other book of the Bible records more stories that illustrate the intrinsic volatility of blending the two domains, and no other figure in the book was arrested and tried more often than the apostle Paul. He endured several arrests and trials in the many cities he traveled to. We’ll be looking at Acts 21–26, which records in detail part of the intense series of trials that followed Paul’s arrest in Jerusalem.

Paul suffered tremendous abuse in many of the places he visited as a missionary, and he certainly treasured religious liberty wherever he could find it. He ministered in Corinth longer than any other city, partially because his religious liberties were protected there. Gallio, the Proconsul of Achaia, made some distinction between civil and religious law. When Paul faced religious accusations, Gallio was decidedly against using the power of state to settle such issues (Acts 18:15). The Roman Empire would have been a very different place if every Roman proconsul, magistrate, governor, and caesar had consistently upheld the noble principles of freedom that Gallio demonstrated. By refusing to judge religious matters, Gallio distinguished himself in history as a champion of religious liberty.

The Roman judges in Paul’s trials recognized the same distinction between the civil and religious. Lysias, commander of the garrison in Jerusalem, testified, “I found out that he was accused concerning questions of their [the Jewish] law, but had nothing charged against him deserving of death or chains” (Acts 23:29). In a later trial, the governor Festus explained to King Agrippa that “When the accusers stood up, they brought no accusation against him of such things as I supposed, but had some questions against him about their own religion.... because I was uncertain of such questions, I asked whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and there be judged concerning these matters” (Acts 25:18–20).

Paul defended himself by citing that civil magistrates were responsible for civil matters, not religious ones. Speaking to Festus, he said, “Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar have I offended in anything at all.... if I am an offender, or have committed anything deserving of death, I do not object to dying” (Acts 25:8, 11). In making this statement, Paul clearly emphasized the difference between the religious offense he was accused of and the magistrate’s civil duties.

Festus acknowledged Paul’s innocence, saying, “I found that he had committed nothing deserving of death” (Acts 25:25), and Agrippa agreed: “This man is doing nothing deserving of death or chains (26:31). Had Paul not appealed to Caesar, a legal action that could not later be rescinded, both Festus and Agrippa would have been willing to set him free (26:32). Paul was ultimately sent to Rome, bound as a prisoner.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`In what way did Festus recognize the distinction between civil and religious law, whether consciously or not?`