---
title:  Citizens’ Rights
date:   19/02/2024
---

### inTerpret

Understanding the privileges and protections Roman citizenship provided helps explain why Paul appealed to Caesar in his trial before Festus. Paul was fortunate enough to be born a Roman citizen, but others paid exorbitant fees to gain the rights, protections, and privileges given to Roman citizens (Acts 22:28). Paul claimed the rights his citizenship provided multiple times during his trials. Acts first records this happening in the city of Philippi (in modern-day Greece), where he established the first Christian church in Europe. Chapter 16 tells of how Paul and Silas were severely beaten, arrested, shackled at the ankles, and thrown in prison after their ministry threatened the income of local wealthy slave owners.

It’s important to note that while Paul at times claimed his citizenship, he was never focused on his own rights. The incident in Philippi demonstrates this quality too, for he did not demand his rights immediately upon being arrested or even when he was publicly beaten before his trial—a grievous violation of those rights. Instead, he went quietly to his cell, singing hymns through much of the night, and even chose to stay when an earthquake miraculously threw the prison doors open. Paul’s remarkable response to the abuse and injustice affected the prison guard so powerfully that he and his family became some of the first converts of that first European church that very same night. That’s not to say Paul was unwilling to push back against the authorities when the situation called for it. When asked to leave the city quietly, he declared that he would not go until the magistrates themselves came and spoke with him—his right as a Roman citizen. Requesting that Paul and Silas depart in secret was unjust after they had suffered such wrongful mistreatment. Paul respected the magistrates and their authority, but he expected a certain level of respect in return. Once he had received that respect—once the magistrates spoke with him—he complied with their request to leave.

Paul displayed an extraordinary ability to carefully discern when to surrender his rights and when to push back, protest, and appeal. He maintained this balance through the rest of his life. After a few more missionary tours, Paul was apprehended in Jerusalem. When coming under the charge of a Roman centurion, Paul objected to being whipped, again without a fair trial (Acts 22:30–34). Once again, he wasn’t claiming his rights merely out of self-interest; he was both defending God’s right to his service and safeguarding the centurion from the consequences of mishandling a Roman citizen.

It was in this context that Paul’s trial before Governor Festus took place several years later. As noted in inGest, Festus knew Paul was innocent (Acts 25:18–21, 25) but threatened to send Paul back to Jerusalem to be judged there because he wanted to gain the Jews’ favor (v. 9). Paul appealed to the highest court in the empire in that moment of peril, using the rights his citizenship provided to seek a fair hearing before Caesar himself.

Just as Paul’s case went to the highest court in Rome, God’s people will face similar trials during the final showdown between good and evil. No one should be surprised when faithful believers again stand before the highest tribunals of this world.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What was Paul’s purpose in using his Roman citizenship if not merely to protect himself?`

`Does citizenship today afford certain rights that can help us advance God’s work? Maybe it depends on the country?`