---
title:  Our Rights
date:   21/02/2024
---

### inVite

Paul’s discernment between when to surrender his rights and when to embrace them extended to his missionary work. In one situation with the Corinthian church in particular, Paul chose to relinquish his right to ask the church for financial support because some people questioned his motives, wondering if he preached for his own financial gain (1 Cor. 9:1–14). This was, of course, a ridiculous accusation as Paul often worked as a tentmaker to sustain himself (Acts 18:3), but he knew that simply verbally contending this gossip would not be enough. He chose not to ask for wages from the churches so that no false rumors would “hinder the gospel” (1 Cor. 9:12).

Paul pleaded with the Corinthian believers to follow his example in prioritizing others’ wellbeing above their own rights (1 Cor. 11:1). In one instance, he argued that even though they knew idols hold no power, they should not eat any food offered to idols to avoid confusing other believers (especially new ones) and thereby hindering their mission work (1 Cor. 10:28, 29). Paul valued rights, privileges, and liberties, but he valued other people’s salvation more, and that is the essence of his argument. Anytime Paul made a decision, he was more concerned about the ultimate impact his choice would have on others than how it might preserve his rights. Christians should defend their rights only when it benefits others or protects their service to God, never at others’ expense. Knowing Paul’s deepest motivation explains why he sometimes surrendered and other times defended his rights.

Jesus set a similar example when it came to defending Himself. Though He remained silent for most of His final trial (Isa. 53:7; Mark 15:5), He certainly wasn’t silent during His ministry. John 5:19–47 records a very systematic defense of His Divine work, and Matthew 22 details Jesus’ candid answers when facing the Pharisees’ and Herodians’ scrutinizing questions. By the time of His final trial, the mob’s frenzy and the leaders’ anger were out of control. Had He stood before a more receptive crowd as Paul did at his trials, perhaps He would’ve answered His accusers, but He remained silent because He knew they were not looking for answers, but for blood. There were no longer any ears to hear His words.

The example that both Christ and Paul set should challenge each of us to deeply examine the motives behind our choices and our willingness to surrender everything to God. Paul gave up all for the sake of the gospel, but he was also willing to stand his ground when it advanced God’s mission, which exhibits perhaps a different kind of surrender and certainly a God-led kind of discernment. When believers embrace that level of submission to God’s will, nothing can inhibit His work through us.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`Considering Paul strove to imitate Jesus, what insights do his submission and defense give us about Jesus?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`