---
title:  The Spirit Of Truth 
date:  31/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Have you ever prayed, “Please, God, make me good!”? But then nothing changes. How is it possible for us to pray for God’s mighty power to work in our hearts, but then our lives stay the same? We know that God freely offers us the power to change our lives. We really want this change to happen, too. But then our lives don’t change in a way that matches what God offers us.

Why? The reason is simple. Yes, the Holy Spirit has the power to change us. But our own choices can limit what God can do for us.

`Read John 16:5–15. In these verses, Jesus says that the Holy Spirit also is the “Spirit of truth” (John 16:13, NIV). What does the name “Spirit of truth” tell us about the Holy Spirit’s job of helping people?`

The Holy Spirit shows us our sins. But He can’t force us to stop sinning. The Holy Spirit also can show us the most important Bible truth about God. But the Spirit can’t force us to believe or obey it. What if God forced us to do something? Then we are not free. Satan can then accuse God of forcing our minds and hearts to serve Him. Satan also can accuse God of “cheating” in the worldwide war between good and evil. When this war started in heaven, God the Father didn’t force Satan or any of the angels to believe that He was good. God didn’t force the angels to stop sinning. In the Garden of Eden, God warned Adam and Eve not to eat from the tree in the middle of the garden. But God didn’t stop Eve and Adam from making the choice to disobey Him. God won’t act any different today with us. So, the Spirit shows us the Bible truth about God and sin. Then the Spirit says, “I showed you the truth. What will your answer be? What will you do now?”

The same thing happens when God gives us a difficult test in life. Sometimes God brings the test to our lives because we haven’t obeyed Him or because we haven’t stopped sinning. Do we want God to help us during this time? Then we must confess our sins and obey Him. Then God’s power can enter our hearts and change us.

`What has the “Spirit of truth” said to you lately? How do you obey His words? What choices did you make this week?`