---
title:  The God-Human Combination 
date:  01/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What is your biggest success? Chances are, you did not achieve this success simply by rolling out of bed one morning! If we want to achieve something important in life, we must work hard. Success takes time and effort. Our serving Jesus is no different.

`Paul talks about God working in him. At the same time, what part does human effort have in Paul’s success in the work he does for God? Read Colossians 1:28, 29 for the answer. Also read Deuteronomy 4:4; Luke 13:24; 1 Corinthians 9:25; and Hebrews 12:4.`

In Colossians 1:28 and 29, Paul talks about his work for God. He says that he works and fights hard to bring people to the Lord. But Paul says that God’s power helps him to do this work.

The word written as “work” in Colossians 1:29, ERV, means to “grow tired” and “to work until you’re too tired to do anymore work.” Writers in Paul’s time used this word to talk about athletes during their training. The word written as “struggle [fight]” in Colossians 1:29, ERV, can mean to “suffer much.” So, these two words show us a picture of an athlete working hard to win. But then Paul adds another part to this picture, and that part is God. Yes, Paul fights and works hard with all that he has. But Paul also fights hard with everything God gives him. So, we see that Paul’s work for God is done with God’s strength. Yes, Paul uses his own personal effort and human strength. But he understands that real strength comes from God.

We live in a time when most people want more and more. But they want to work less to get it. Sad to say, this idea has come into Christianity, too. Some Christian preachers promise that all you need to do is believe in Jesus. Then God will pour the Holy Spirit on you. The Spirit will give you power to do miracles. But this teaching is only half true. It causes people to think that we just need to wait for God’s power to change us. We don’t need to do anything. We just need to sit back and wait for the change to happen!

`What is your own experience with the struggle or the fight that Paul talks about? What are you fighting in your heart? How can you learn to let God lead you all the time?`