---
title:  Self Discipline
date:  02/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God made us free to choose. One of the biggest enemies of our free choice is our own feelings. Every day the pictures in ads and the music all around us cause us to feel anger, fear, or to think about sex. Often, we feel and think these things without being aware of what’s happening to us. How often do we think, “What do I want to eat for dinner?” “What do I want to do today?” “Do I feel good about buying this or that thing?” A lot, right? Feelings are a big part of our decision-making. Many feelings are not bad. But how I feel about something may have little to do with what is right or best. Our feelings can lie to us (“A human heart is more dishonest than anything else. It can’t be healed. Who can understand it?” [Jeremiah 17:9, NIrV]). Our feelings can cause us to have a false picture about life. Our feelings also can cause us to make bad choices. These choices can cause us to suffer.

`What examples can you find from the Bible of people who made choices because they were controlled by their feelings and not by Bible truth? Read examples of people who behaved this way: Genesis 3:6; 2 Samuel 11:2–4; Galatians 2:11, 12.`

`Read 1 Peter 1:13. What does Peter want his readers to do?`

Peter understood that the mind controls the body. When we don’t control our thoughts, we will be controlled by our feelings.

Make a picture in your mind of this story: you are walking on a road. The road is not wide. Along the road, you see there are many other roads. Each of these new roads lead in a different direction. Some of these roads go to places that we should not want to visit. Other roads look nice; they make us feel happy and free. If we walk on any of these roads, we will get off the correct road. Then we will get lost or go in the wrong direction. We will have trouble getting back on the right road after that.

`What important choices do you need to make? Ask yourself, “How can I know if I’m making my choices because of my feelings or because of Bible truth?”`