---
title:  Giving Everything To God 
date:  03/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“ ‘If your right eye causes you to sin, poke it out and throw it away. Your eye is only one part of your body. It is better to lose an eye than for your whole body to be thrown into hell’ ” (Matthew 5:29, NIrV).

`Think about the words of Jesus in Matthew 5:29 above. Do you think Jesus asks His followers to give up too much? Explain your answer.`

Jesus asks us to give up only the things that are for our own good. Jesus does not ask us to give things up because He wants to make our lives difficult. Sometimes we need to take strong action because we have gotten so far away from God’s plans for us. People often ask, “How did I get so far away from God?” The answer is always the same: just one thought and one action at a time.

Read Matthew 5:29, 30. Jesus talks about sex sins in these verses. But Jesus gives us good advice about how to control other sins in our lives, too. We must follow these rules if we want to grow in Jesus.

`What important idea does Jesus share with us in Matthew 5:29, 30? Is Jesus really asking us to poke out our eyes and cut off our hands?`

Jesus isn’t asking us to hurt our bodies. Of course not! Jesus is really asking us to control our minds and bodies, no matter what. Do you see that the verses don’t say that God will remove the wish from our hearts to do wrong? Yes, sometimes God will remove this wish for us. But often God asks us to give up something first. Or He may ask us to start doing something that we don’t really want to do at all. That can be a hard test! When we make correct choices, we will become stronger. Then the wish to sin grows weaker in our lives.

God sometimes uses tests and suffering to get our attention. When we suffer, we often see how far we have gone away from God. Suffering may be God’s invitation to us to make a big change in life. Suffering also may help us see the wisdom in coming back to God’s plan for us.