---
title:  Never Give Up 
date:  04/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Jacob wrestling with God (Genesis 32). What does this story say to us about not giving up, even when we feel discouraged?`

We can know what is right and choose to do the right thing. But when we are under pressure, we may find that holding on to God and His promises is hard. That is why one of the important Christian strengths is never giving up.

Jacob is one of the best examples in the Bible of not giving up. Jacob tricked his brother, Esau, and his father many years before. Jacob stole his brother’s blessing (Genesis 27). Since that time, Jacob ran in fear of Esau, who wanted to kill him. Yes, God gave Jacob wonderful promises of His protection and blessings in a dream about a ladder that touched heaven. But Jacob felt scared anyway. Jacob wanted to know that God accepted him and was going to keep the promise made to him many years before. As Jacob fought Someone who was Jesus, Jacob’s hip popped out of joint. The pain was so bad that Jacob stopped fighting. In terrible pain, Jacob held on to Jesus. Jesus said to Jacob, “ ‘Let me go. The sun is coming up’ ” (Genesis 32:26, ERV). But Jacob won’t let go until Jesus gives him His blessing.

Jacob’s blessing came because he held on through the pain. The same thing happens for us. God also may pop our “hip” out of place. Then He will invite us to hang onto Him in our pain. God didn’t remove the scars Jacob got from their wrestling match. Jacob continued to walk with a limp when he met his brother. On the outside, Jacob looked weak. But the limp showed that Jacob was strong enough to hold on to Jesus.

`What are some choices you can make that will help you not to give up on the Lord when you feel hopeless and want to do wrong? These choices can include your friends, way of life, the books you read, your health habits, and your spiritual life.`