---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Night of Wrestling,” pages 195–203, in Patriarchs and Prophets; and “Consecration,” pages 43–48, in Steps to Christ.

“God made men free to choose. When man sinned, he put his freedom to choose under Satan’s control. Since that time, Satan has worked hard to trick humans into doing what he wants them to do. Satan works to destroy humans and to make their lives unhappy and miserable.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 515, adapted.

“If man wants God’s help, he must know his own weaknesses and needs. God wants to change man in a mighty way. Man must work hard to change. Man must pray and not give up. He must give up wrong habits. Man will win the war against himself only if he works hard to correct his problems and do what is right. Many people never become what God wants them to be. Why? Because they wait for God to do for them the work that He gives them the power to do. All who become useful in this life must be trained by strict discipline. Yes, they must strictly train their minds and hearts to do what is right. God will help them. God will join His mighty power with human effort.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 248, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How will looking at Jesus help us understand better how much we need God’s loving favor and mercy?`

`Read the story about Jesus in Gethsemane (Matthew 26:36–42). What were Jesus’ own feelings and wishes? How were these different from what God wanted Him to do? What can we learn from Jesus’ example?`

`As a class, talk about the things in our community that can make us weak and leave us open to Satan’s attacks. What can we do to help other church members be aware of these dangers? Also, how can we help people who feel the need for help?`

`Do you know someone in your church who hasn’t been there for a long time? Maybe this person is ready to give up, or already has. What can you do as a group to encourage this person? How can you help him or her to continue to trust in Jesus?`