---
title:  Boasting in the Cross
date:   23/09/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world” (Gal. 6:14, ESV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 4:1–7, 21–31

**Brand New?**

<pre>
I was born / With heavy wrists and torn skin
The sound of shackles / Banging together put me to sleep
I was a slave / To the laws that had me bound
And though I clung to His Word
My actions did not comply
What is right I do not do and what is wrong I repeat [Rom. 7:15]
Like the steady beat of the whip against my skin
I tried to tear away my own sin Hoping my salvation was somewhere deep within
I was born / The child of a slave woman
With chained hands and feet
But the day I met the Savior / All bonds were released
No longer do I struggle with man-made restrictions
Celebrating the work of my hands / But now I cry, Father
And press His wholly holy hands against my cheek
My spots are now clean / And yet though I am in sin
I am not of it / For I am reclaimed
Adopted into the family of Christ / Behold the old things have passed away
All things have become new [2 Cor. 5:17]
</pre>

**Christ has set us free from the old laws of Moses that were once used to make us clean.**

The book of Galatians is often a tricky book to grasp. We are taught from birth to follow the rules of society. So when Paul gives us the mind-boggling notion in Galatians 4:4, 5 that Jesus was sent to buy us freedom from the law, it can be hard to understand.

Romans 6:6, 7 says that “we know that our old sinful selves were crucified with Christ so that sin might lose its power in our lives.We are no longer slaves to sin. For when we died with Christ we were set free from the power of sin” (NLT).

Christ has set us free from the old laws of Moses that were once used to make us clean. Now our salvation comes from Christ, who took all of our sins as His own when He died on the cross.

This week, you’ll learn more about the amazing grace of God and how wonderful it is through the teachings of Paul. The idea of becoming a new creation through grace is often hard to grasp, but through prayer and the power of the Holy Spirit, you, too, can understand and accept the freedom you can experience through Christ.

_Stephanie French, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_