---
title:  Understand the Scriptures
date:   24/09/2017
---

**Evidence**: Luke 24:44, 45

The establishment of the first Gentile Christian church in Galatia was plagued with much persecution from the Jews. They opposed this “new gospel” that was being taught by the disciples. In spite of this, Paul and Barnabas journeyed throughout Galatia. On the Sabbath, they went into the synagogue, and Paul stood up and opened the Galatians’ understanding of the Scriptures (Acts 13:13–43), as Jesus did for him and the other disciples after His resurrection (Luke 24:44, 45;Acts 9).As a result, the Gentile congregation grew.

**Jesus wants to be one with us, as He is one**

with the Father, to restore us to our royal heritage.

Paul’s gospel was Jesus’ message. God used the Old Testament traditions and ceremonies like “apps”—the more you download, use, and follow—the more you master its uses and welcome its upgrades. Yet, the Jews refused Jesus’ latest system update, which stripped them of their corporate job titles. They could not understand the application of our bodies becoming God’s temple and dwelling place (John 2:21; 1 Cor. 6:19), as well as all the sanctuary ceremonies only involving God and each person individually (Numbers 7–10; Heb. 4:14, 16; Hebrews 9).

There was no longer a need for a human intercessor or priest. Notice, Jesus did not change any inherent meaning of the sanctuary symbols. He just expressed their true application. He opened our understanding to the primary message He had been communicating all along. Jesus wants to be one with us, as He is one with the Father, to restore us to our royal heritage (Gal. 4:3–7).

At Mount Sinai, God wrote one law (kept in the Most Holy Place) with His own finger and orated the other for Moses to pen. Both laws emphasized how to worship God and care for others. One law was a daily and annual coaching tool that explained why you live out the other by faith (Gal. 3:24–27). “ ‘The righteous will live by faith’ ” (verse 11, NIV) only when God writes His law upon the tables of our hearts and minds (see Heb.8:10).This is the new Most Holy Place where God dwells.

**React**

`1. As God’s temple, do you live differently?`

`2. Is understanding the Scriptures important to you?`

_Elaine A. Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_