---
title:  No Longer Slaves
date:   25/09/2017
---

**Logos**: Matt. 23:27; Rom. 6:1–7; 12:1–8; 2 Cor. 4:10; 5:17; Gal. 1:7; 2:20; 5:2–4; 6:12–15; Phil. 3:8; 2 Tim. 3:12

When I asked myself, What does it mean to boast in the Cross of Christ? I came across a few key thoughts of humility. I realized it was not all about me. I came to an understanding of my worth, my freedom, and the One to whom I am connected.Because of the Cross, I was able to live a free life, and I now could be free of the bondage of the law; I knew where I was headed and whose team I was on.

**What will you do with . . . truth?**

**Ditch the Lies** (Gal. 1:7–9)

I can almost feel the passion that Paul used as he exclaimed to the Galatians about the need to stick to the true gospel. Imagine: you put countless hours into teaching, praying for, and preaching to these people, and after a short time of separation, all of your hard work starts to fizzle away at the next hottest religious trend: salvation by works.

Paul urged his people to go back to the true gospel and what they had learned as new converts. It’s so easy to be swept away with what society says is right. Even though I believe that pressure from society is stronger today, the Galatians had their own battles to fight against the messages of the world. Paul emphasized the need to stay grounded and to search for biblical truth instead of being swept away with popular trends; after all, truth is truth.

**Quit Trying to Be Cool** (Gal. 6:12–15)

Oftentimes we want to fit in, especially as young people. This is often because we are still forming our associations and our self-images. If we are not grounded and have not established our core values, it is very easy to become offended at the opinions of others and to be swayed by the crowd. Paul spoke the truth when he stated, “Those who want to impress people by means of the flesh are trying to compel you to be circumcised. The only reason they do this is to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ” (Gal. 6:12, NIV).

Everyone seeks comfort, and no one likes to draw negative attention to themselves.This is one of the reasons why it is easier to conform and avoid persecution than to boast in the Cross of Christ. The thing is, we know as Christians that persecution will come. So why do we run away from it at every opportunity we have to stand for our faith and point to the Cross of Christ? “In fact, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted” (2 Tim. 3:12, NIV). I believe that when we truly understand who lives in us and recognize the power of Christ, we will no longer be slaves to fear (Gal. 2:20).

**No Longer Slaves to Sin** (Rom. 6:1–7; 12:1–8)

Paul reminded the Galatians that they were now free from the burden of the law and should embrace the Cross of Christ and the freedom of grace. “For we know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body ruled by sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin— because anyone who has died has been set free from sin” (Rom. 6:6, 7, NIV). Not only were our old selves crucified, but so was the old way of sacrifice. Paul encouraged the people to boast in the Cross that had brought them peace and salvation (Gal. 6:14). Paul also called us to be different from the people in the world and not to conform to the world’s ideas, theologies, and standards—we are to be different (Rom. 12:1–8)!

**Christ Is Everything** (2 Cor. 4:10; Phil. 3:8)

We are to view everything through the lens of the Cross. I believe so many of our problems would shrink in magnitude if we got the perspective of the Cross. I believe all of our “accomplishments” should be compared to what Jesus did on the cross; we are never so great that we don’t need Him. Jesus is everything.

It is my prayer that we can truly proclaim these words with Paul: “What is more, I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them garbage, that I may gain Christ” (Phil. 3:8, NIV).

So many people would die to hear the good news of the Cross. If you’re reading this, you have had the privilege of hearing this life-changing news. I do believe that there are people on this earth who have been unreached.The mission totake the goodnews to allthe world isstill our responsibility.That is our highest purpose on this earth, above all else. When we truly appreciate, we will activate.

What will you do with that truth? Will it completely change your life, or are you taking it for granted? It’s much easier to boast in our accomplishments since we are naturally selfish, but the most fulfillment we will ever experience on this earth will be when we give it all to Jesus—all the glory, all the props, and all the credit.

**React**

`1. Why do we keep running back to our chains?`

`2. What does it mean to you to boast in the Cross of Christ?`

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_