---
title:  Throwing Self-Sufficiency Out the Door
date:   26/09/2017
---

**Testomony**: Gal. 6:14

“In almost every church there were some members who were Jews by birth. To these converts the Jewish teachers found ready access, and through them gained a foot-hold in the churches. It was impossible, by scriptural arguments, to overthrow the doctrines taught by Paul; hence they resorted to the most unscrupulous measures to counteract his influence and weaken his authority. They declared that he had not been a disciple of Jesus, and had received no commission from him; yet he had presumed to teach doctrines directly opposed to those held by Peter, James, and the other apostles. Thus the emissaries of Judaism succeeded in alienating many of the Christian converts from their teacher in the gospel. Having gained this point, they induced them to return to the observance of the ceremonial law as essential to salvation. Faith in Christ, and obedience to the law of the ten commandments, were regarded as of minor importance. Division, heresy, and sensualism were rapidly gaining ground among the believers in Galatia.”1

**“Just in proportion as he depends on the Holy Spirit’s teaching he will grow.”**

“We are justified by faith. The soul who understands the meaning of these words will never be self-sufficient. ‘We are not sufficient of ourselves to think anything of ourselves.’The Holy Spirit is our efficiency in the work of character building, in forming characters after the divine similitude. When we think ourselves capable of molding our own experience, we make a great mistake.We can never of ourselves obtain the victory over temptation. But those who have genuine faith in Christ will be worked by the Holy Spirit.

“The soul in whose heart faith abides will grow into a beautiful temple for the Lord.He is directed by the grace of Christ.Just in proportion as he depends on the Holy Spirit’s teaching he will grow.”2

All in all, we must understand that we on our own can do nothing to gain anything in the eyes of our Savior.We are completely and helplessly relying on Him for everything, and it is for that very reason that we ought to boast in the Cross, and the Cross only.

**React**

`1. How do you feel knowing you can do nothing to gain Christ’s favor?`

`2. Why do we as humans feel that we need to do something to become better? Has our culture impacted that?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, pp. 188, 189.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Manuscript 8, 1900.</sup>

_Felipe Solheiro, St. Albert, Alberta, Canada_