---
title:  In Christ Alone
date:   27/09/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 12:1–12; Gal. 6:14

Imagine for a second you are trapped in a house that is on fire.The flames have come up all around you, and you are completely trapped inside.You then realize in only a few short minutes you are about to suffer the same fate as the burning house around you. In that moment there would be an overwhelming sense of hopelessness and the realization that there is nothing that you can do to save yourself.However, just when it seems as if all hope is gone, a firefighter comes bursting through the door, picks you up, and carries you outside to safety.Now imagine this; as soon as that firefighter takes you outside to safety, instead of thanking him or her for saving your life, you begin to tell others about all of the things that you did inside of the house to keep yourself alive.You can imagine how foolish this would sound to everyone around.

**To think that there was anything that we did to save ourselves is contrary to the whole message of the gospel.**

For Paul, this example is how he would describe the salvation that Jesus gave to all of us by sacrificing Himself on the cross. To think that there was anything that we did to save ourselves is contrary to the whole message of the gospel. Paul wanted to make abundantly clear that he had nothing to boast about except the Cross of Jesus from which his salvation came.

Now, how then can we keep from boasting in anything other than the Cross of Jesus? Here are a few steps:

Remember salvation comes from Christ alone. There is nothing that we can or cannot do in order to obtain a higher standing with God. If we accept the free gift of eternal life given to us by our Lord Jesus, we are all on the same playing field.

Remember that all good things come from Him.Boasting often comes from believing that we did something that deserves recognition. For Paul in these moments, he realized that if there was any good in him, it didn’t come from himself but from Christ living in him (Gal. 2:20).

Remember where we came from. Often the times when we are able to most clearly see the hand of God in our lives are when we look back on where our lives were before He came and changed them. In these moments, we can often see not how far we have come but how far Christ has taken us.

**React**

`1. What is thedanger ofboasting inanything other thantheCross of Jesus?`

`2. What is a practical exercise you can do every day in order to keep the focus off of yourself and solely on Christ?`

_Harrison Chokka, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_