---
title:  “Don’t Make Me Say it Twice”
date:   28/09/2017
---

**Opinion**: Jer. 9:23, 24

I learned in that class that every time a verse has a “says the Lord” in the beginning and at the end, it means that we really should pay attention; it means that God truly wants us to take a closer look at what He is saying because it is very important to stick it in our heads.

In Jeremiah 9:23, 24, the prophet Jeremiah starts by saying, “Thus says the Lord” and finishes his warning saying, “says the Lord” (NKJV). He said it twice, so we better pay attention. God spoke with the Israelites before, and He is still speaking with us now about the need to know Him. If there is one thing God is telling us today, it is we need to know Him on such a deep level that we desire nothing else but His love!

**If there is one thing God is telling us today, it is we need to know Him on such a deep level that we desire nothing else but His love!**

I have a favorite verse for different stages of my life, and Jeremiah 9:23, 24 is indeed my favorite in this season I am in. I have come to know that my happiness and success are simply found in knowing the Lord.Although wisdom, strength, and riches belong to God, what He indeed prioritizes is for us to know Him first; He wants us to seek His heart before His hand.

Each and every day the Lord is calling us to experience a supernatural relationship with Him to the point that we will clearly hear His voice guiding our steps. In Galatians 6:14, Paul is expressing how God avails a renewed heart that reflects the character of Jesus.

To be a new creation is not fixing the old heart we had; it is giving the “broken you” to God and just letting Him do the work. When I decided to get to know Him on a deeper level and when I realized there was nothing I could do to help myself in fixing the “broken me,” He was faithful and blessed me. If God is telling you to trust Him and to walk with Him, it is because He really means it;don’t makeHimsay it twice.Accept, embrace, and open yourheart to Him today—now.

**React**

`1. What is holding you back from experiencing this renewal of heart?`

`2. How should we respond to this tireless love of God that is also found in the Old Testament?`

`3. What are the things you boast about?`

_Fernanda Perez, Calgary, Alberta, Canada_