---
title:  Freedom That Inspires Change and Growth
date:   29/09/2017
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 5:1; 1 Pet. 2:16

**Conclude**

Because of Jesus’ death on the cross, Paul admonishes the Galatians to “stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free” (Gal. 5:1, NKJV). This freedom/liberty should not be taken lightly, neither should it be used as an excuse to continue in sin. Rather, it should be employed as an avenue for service to the world (1 Pet. 2:16). Freedom has come to the world! Transformation is not of our own works. Our service to the world should be God-made.We have to follow in Jesus’ footsteps by allowing God to lead our daily lives. We can boast in nothing except Christ.

**Consider**

- Taking a walk out in nature. Pick a plant, flower, animal, etc. that you can observe over a one-week period. Make a note of all changes that occurred and the weather conditions that existed throughout that week. What did you notice?
- Documenting your experience of a time when you mentored, taught, or helped someone learn something new. Was it easy or difficult? Did the individual follow your instructions, or did they try to do their own thing? How did that make you feel?
- Researching online what are the current beliefs that exist on the importance of the Cross.
- Writing about how Jesus’ death on the cross has changed your life and what it means to live according to the gospel.
- Inviting your friends out for an evening of fun—drawing/painting/photography.Take time out to share how creative God is and how He loves to create something out of nothing.

**Connect**

- Galatians 2:16; 3:11; Romans 10:17.
- Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, chapter 9, “The Quality of Our Faith”; Sketches From the Life of Paul,chapter 5, “Preaching Among the Heathen”; chapter 6, “Jew and Gentile.”
- Ty Gibson, A God Named Desire (Pacific Press®, 2010), pp. 21, 22.
- W. D. Frazee, Ransom and Reunion Through the Sanctuary (Southern, 1977), pp. 39–43.

_Elaine A. Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_