---
title: 'Why Should We Tell People About Jesus?'
date: 27/06/2020
---

### Read for this week's lesson
Luke 19:10; Zephaniah 3:17; John 7:37, 38; 1 Timothy 2:3, 4; 2 Corinthians 5:14, 15, 18–20.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “This is good and pleases God our Savior. God wants everyone to be saved and to fully understand the truth” (1 Timothy 2:3, 4, ERV).

WHAT DOES GOD WANT? He wants all people everywhere to accept His love. He also wants people to be changed by His Holy Spirit. God wants humans to live with Him in His kingdom. More than anything else, God wants to save us. His love has no limits. We cannot measure His love. God’s love has no end. His forgiveness never runs out. His power cannot be used up or worn out. God is different from any other god that humans ever worshiped. Humans gave these false gods gifts. But the true God gave His life as a gift for us. Do you want to be saved? God wants to save you even more than you want to be saved! (1 Timothy 2:3, 4, ERV). With all His heart, God wants to save you and me.

What is witnessing all about? Witnessing is telling other people all about Jesus and what He did to save us. It is about how Jesus changes our lives. Witnessing is about wonderful Bible truth. The Bible teaches us about God. The Bible shows us the beauty in God’s heart. Why should we witness or tell people about Jesus? Because we understand who God is. We want to share our experience about God’s love and His mercy with other people. Why else should we witness? Because we want to work with Jesus. We want to share the joy He feels when He saves people. His love changes lives.
