---
title:  GOD GIVES US THE CHANCE TO BE SAVED
date:   28/06/2020
---

God gives people everywhere the chance to know Him every day. God’s Holy Spirit touches our hearts. God shows Himself to us in all the beautiful things we see in nature. This earth and the stars in the sky show us God’s power and wisdom. God also controls what happens in our lives to bring us near to Him. He leads us so that we will know that He cares about us.

Yes, the Holy Spirit, nature, and God’s leading in our lives help us to know God. But what is the best way for us to understand God’s love? Jesus shows us God better than anything else. We see God in Jesus’ life and His work. So, we should share Jesus with other people. Then we will give them the best chance to be saved.

`Compare Luke 19:10 with James 5:19, 20. What does Luke 19:10 teach us about why Jesus came to this earth? How do we work together with Jesus to save other people?`

The book of James tells us: “ ‘Anyone who brings a sinner back from the wrong way will save that sinner’s soul from death. By doing this, that person will cause many sins to be forgiven’ ” (James 5:20, ICB). The book of Romans helps us to understand this idea better. In Romans 1 and 2, we read about the Jews and the non-Jews. The non-Jews did not have the Bible to show them about God. But they learned about God from nature. The Jews had the Bible. The Bible showed them who God is. But both groups will be lost if they do not have Jesus Christ. In Romans 3–5, Paul tells us that we are saved only by our faith in God’s mercy. In Romans 6–8, Paul tells us that the same power that saves us also makes us holy. In Romans 10, Paul says: “ ‘anyone who asks the Lord for help will be saved’ ” (Romans 10:13, ICB). Then Paul tells us, “before people can pray to the Lord for help they must believe in him” (Romans 10:14, ERV). We cannot believe in Him if we do not know Him. We cannot know Him until someone tells us about Him. So, do you see how important we are in God’s plan to save other people? God uses us to share the Good News with sinners. We help God save lost humans.

`The reason we tell people about Jesus is not to give people their only chance to be saved. We share Jesus with them to give them their “best” chance. What is our part in God’s plan to save humans? How many people know about Jesus because of what you have shared with them?`
