---
title:  LET US MAKE JESUS GLAD!
date:   29/06/2020
---

Has anyone ever asked you, “How is your day going?” Or “Is everything all right with you today?” What if you asked God these same questions? What if you say, “God, how is Your day going?” How do you think God will answer? Maybe He will say, “My day has been very hard. Tears filled My eyes because of all the people and children who lost their homes. These people ran to another country. They are cold and hungry there. I also walked the streets of this earth’s crowded cities. I wept when I saw the homeless and the poor. My heart broke when I saw women who were beaten and children who were sold as sex slaves. I saw how war destroys lives. I saw how floods and earthquakes hurt people. I saw people suffer pain from awful sickness.” Then we can ask, “But God, is there anything that fills Your heart with joy? Is there anything that makes You sing?”

`Read Luke 15:4–32. How do these stories end? What do their endings tell us about God?`

All heaven feels joy when God saves a sinner. Yes, we live on an earth filled with sickness, earthquakes, floods, and death. But we can fill God’s heart with joy when we share with other people the Good News about Jesus. What is one of the best reasons for sharing Jesus’ love with other people? The answer is: when we share God with other people God’s heart fills with joy. Every time we show God’s love to other people, everyone in heaven sings!

`Read Zephaniah 3:17. As we see in this verse, what does the Lord do when we accept His power to save us?`

Make this picture in your mind: you share Jesus with someone. Then this person accepts Jesus as his or her personal Savior. What happens next? Jesus is filled with joy. Everyone in heaven sings. Our mighty Savior sings with joy too. Yes, we live on an earth that is filled with so much sorrow and pain. But your story about Him fills God’s heart with joy and song. What can be more wonderful than knowing that!
