---
title:  WHEN WE GIVE, WE GROW
date:   30/06/2020
---

The lowest part of planet Earth is the Dead Sea. The Dead Sea is 1,412 feet lower than the top of the other seas on earth! Where does the Dead Sea start? It starts with the Jordan River. The Jordan River flows out of the Sea of Galilee. Then the Jordan River flows south into the Jordan Valley until it ends in the Dead Sea.

The air around the Dead Sea is very dry. The sun there is very hot. It makes the air feel the same as a desert. The Dead Sea is 33.7% salt! Few things live in its salt waters. There are no fish or plants. Only some very small things live on the bottom of the Dead Sea. These living things are too small for us to see without a microscope.

The Dead Sea helps us understand our need for grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. We must let God’s grace into our lives. Then we must let grace flow from our hearts to other people. Without grace, we will be the same as the Dead Sea. We will not have any spiritual life. That is not the way a Christian should live. We should not be “Dead Sea” Christians.

`Read John 7:37, 38 and Luke 6:38. These verses show us what happens in our lives when Jesus gives us Living Water to drink. What happens when we drink it?`

“Does God need our help to save sinners? No! God wants us to become the same as His Son. So, we must join God in Jesus’ saving work. Then we will feel the joy that God feels. That joy comes from our seeing people saved because of Jesus’ death.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 142, adapted.

“Do you want to win the war against sin? Then stop acting selfish. Start caring about saving other people. That will help you to stop being selfish.”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, page 207, adapted.

So, let us share with other people what Jesus has done for us. Then our spiritual lives will grow strong. Think about everything that God gives us in Jesus! Only a selfish heart will keep us from sharing this gift with other people. If we fail to share our faith, what will happen? Our spiritual lives will become the same as the Dead Sea.

`Have you shared Jesus with anyone? How did your experience make your faith grow stronger?`
