---
title:  OBEYING JESUS’ COMMAND
date:   01/07/2020
---

When we are loyal to Jesus, we will follow His plan. We will obey His commands. What is important to Jesus will be important to us. Is your heart loyal to Jesus? Then you will work with Him to save people who are lost in sin.

`Read 1 Timothy 2:3, 4 and 2 Peter 3:9. What do these verses tell us about God’s heart? What is the most important thing to God?`

God is excited about saving people. His children are very important to Him. God wants all people to be saved and to “fully understand the truth” (1 Timothy 2:4, ERV). “But God is being patient with you. He does not want anyone to be lost. He wants everyone to change his heart and life” (2 Peter 3:9, ICB). The SDA Bible Commentary tells us that the word “want” in 2 Peter 3:9 comes from the Greek word “boulomai.” “Boulomai shows us ‘a desire or wish to do something.’ ” Next, the SDA Bible Commentary talks about the word “but.” The Greek word for “but” is “alla.” Peter uses this word to “show us two different ideas. The first idea is the false belief that God does not wish to save everyone. But the second idea is the truth that God wants everyone to be saved.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, page 615, adapted. Jesus commands us to work with Him to save people. He wants us to tell people about His love, truth, and grace. Grace, as we saw, is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. When we work to save people, we show them Jesus’ wish to save all humans.

`Read Acts 13:47 and compare it with Isaiah 49:6. Who is Paul talking to in Acts 13:47? What is Paul telling us in this verse?`

Sometimes Old Testament messages have more than one meaning. In Acts 13:47, Paul tells the Jews and non-Jews an Old Testament message about Israel and the Savior (read Isaiah 41:8; Isaiah 49:6; and Luke 2:32). Paul shows how this verse is about the New Testament church too. What happens when the church does not pay attention to Jesus’ commands? The church will fail to do the work God gave her.

`What is the danger of forgetting why we, as a church, are here on this earth?`
