---
title: 'Love Leads Us'
date: 02/07/2020
---

This week, we have answered the question: “Why should we share Jesus?” We discovered that we feel joy when we share our faith. We also feel joy when we work together with God to save people. Our stories about God’s love show people how they can be saved. They can see more clearly God’s truth and grace. Remember, grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.

At the same time, God helps us to grow stronger when we share Jesus. So, we must remember to share Jesus with other people. We must tell them everything God does for us. We must help people in need too. If we fail to tell people about Jesus, our spiritual life will fail to grow.

When we tell people about Jesus, we come close to the God who wants to save all humans. We also obey God’s command. In today’s study, we will look at the best reason for why we should tell other people about Jesus.

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:14, 15, 18–20. What helped Paul to stay strong during hard times, tests of faith, difficult problems, and bad experiences? How can Paul’s reason help us to stay strong in our work for Jesus too?`

Paul worked with love in his heart. You will do things for love that you will not do for any other reason. Paul says, “the love of Christ controls us” (2 Corinthians 5:14, ERV). Paul’s words are an everlasting truth. The word “controls” means to “lead, guide, to control, or to cause someone to strongly want to do something.” Jesus’ love controlled everything Paul did. It caused Paul to share God’s saving plan all over the Mediterranean area.

“Love must live in the heart. A loyal Christian has a deep love in his heart for Jesus. That is the reason for everything he does. His deep wish to help other people grows out of his love for Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 425, adapted.

So, we must understand what Jesus did for us on the cross. Then Jesus’ love will fill us. We will want to share with other people everything He does for us.

`The One who made the stars and angels also died for us on the cross. How does this Bible truth help us to share His love with other people?`
