---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 03/07/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “God’s Purpose for His Church,” pages 9–16, in The Acts of the Apostles, and pages 822–828, in The Desire of Ages.

The New Testament church was in danger of not understanding its reason for being on this earth. Ellen G. White talks about this danger: “Non-Christians attack the members of the Jerusalem church for their beliefs. These attacks help the church to grow and to share the Good News about Jesus. Before the attacks start, church members share Jesus in Jerusalem. Many people join the church. But Jesus’ followers are in danger of staying in Jerusalem too long. Jesus tells His followers to share the Good News everywhere. His followers forget that the power to fight against evil comes from working hard to serve God. Church members start to think that the most important work they can do is to protect the Jerusalem church from attacks. So, church members do not teach new believers to carry the Good News to people who do not know about it. The church is in danger of being happy only with what they have already done in the past.”—The Acts of the Apostles, page 105, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Look carefully at the Ellen G. White quotation above. Pay special attention to the last line. Why do we need to be careful of that same danger today? Why is feeling that way so wrong?`

`2. Why do you think the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John end with the same command? Read this command in Matthew 28:18–20; Mark 16:15, 16; Luke 24:46–49; and John 20:21. What does Jesus’ command in these verses show His followers living in the 1st century? What should it show us today?`

`3. Can witnessing and serving God ever replace true worship of God? If yes, how? What can we do to make sure we do not fall into this trap?`

`4. How does witnessing and serving God help to make your faith grow stronger? What have you learned from your experience that can help other people? What mistakes have you made? How can you help other people not to make these same mistakes?`

`5. God loves each one of us as if we were the only person on earth. This fact is wonderful! What does this Bible truth mean to you? It is the most important truth on earth and in heaven. How should you live your life because of it?`
