---
title:  The Two Most Important Commandments
date:   16/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

If we want to show God’s love to people, we first must start with doing the things God commanded us to do.

`Read Matthew 22:34–40. How did Jesus answer the lawyer’s question?`

Jesus said, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul [spirit], and all your mind.’ This [command] is the first and most important command. And the second command is like [the same as] the first: ‘Love your neighbor the same as you love yourself.’ All of the law and the writings of the prophets [God’s special messengers] take their meaning from these two commands” (Matthew 22:37–40, ERV). Do you see that the commandments Jesus says in these verses are quotes from the Old Testament?

`Read Matthew 19:16–23. How are Jesus’ answers to the rich young man’s questions much the same as His answers to the lawyer’s question in Matthew 22?`

What is going on in this story? Why did Jesus answer this young man in this way? What should we all, rich or poor, learn from this meeting?

“Jesus gave the rich young man a command that would help him become a true Christian. We may think that Jesus’ words were too strict. But Jesus’ words were really wise. Jesus showed the rich young man what he must do to be saved. Following and obeying these rules were the young man’s only hope. His riches and power started to change his heart for the worse. If the young man continued to love his riches more and more, he would love God less and less. But what if the young man loved his riches only a little? Would he lose strength to be a good person? Yes. If we love our things more than we love God, these things will fill our hearts so fully until there’s no more room for God.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 520, adapted.

`God may not ask us to sell everything we own. But what are you holding on to that you may need to give up? How will keeping these things cause you to lose your everlasting life if you don’t let go of them?`