---
title:  The Two Biggest Sins
date:   17/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus said that the two most important commandments are love for God and love for other people. When we obey these commands, we must give up things so that we may show that we love other people. When we do, we show that we understand what following Jesus is really all about.

Now, if the two most important commandments are love for God and love for other people, what are our two biggest sins?

`Read Psalm 135:13–19. What do these verses teach us about a sin that we read about elsewhere in the Bible?`

The Old Testament talks about how we must love God above everything else (read Deuteronomy 6:5). What is completely different from love for God? Love for false gods, whatever those “gods” may be.

`Read Zechariah 7:9–12. What angers God? How is this thing and the sin of worshiping false gods connected to the two most important commandments?`

God doesn’t like our worship of false gods. He also doesn’t want us to hurt other people. Remember, God is love. So, He becomes angry when we hurt other people or aren’t fair to them.

The two biggest sins in the Old Testament are connected with the two most important commandments: to love God and to love other people. So, the two biggest sins are really failing to love as God commands us. You can’t keep the commandments if you don’t love God and if you don’t love other people.

In 1 John 4:20, 21, we read: “If we say we love God but hate any of our brothers or sisters in his family, we are liars. If we don’t love someone we have seen, how can we love God? We have never even seen him. God gave us this command: If we love God, we must also love each other as brothers and sisters” (ERV).

`How do you explain to someone why our love for God can’t be separated from our love for other people? How are these two ideas connected?`