---
title:  God Loves Being Fair
date:   18/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible announces that God loves being fair and hates evil (read Psalm 33:5; Isaiah 61:8). God cares deeply when we aren’t fair to people. When we aren’t fair and hurt other people, God gets angry. In the Old and New Testaments, God helps and defends the poor and needy. He gets angry with the people who hurt them and show them no mercy.

`Read Psalm 82. How does this poem show us that God cares about our being fair in this life? What does this poem mean for us today?`

Many Bible thinkers feel that Psalm 82 warns us about leaders who aren’t fair. Psalm 82 also talks about the time when God will judge “the gods” who work with the evil leaders on this earth and give them power. (These gods, as we saw already, are really demons.) God asks the leaders, “ ‘How long will you stand up for those [evil people] who aren’t fair to others [innocent people]? How long will you show mercy to sinful [filled with sin] people?’ ” (Psalm 82:2, NIrV).

God commands these leaders to “ ‘defend the poor and orphans. Protect the rights [the needs] of the poor. Help those [people] who are poor and helpless [in need]. Save them from those [people] who are evil’ ” (Psalm 82:3, 4, ERV). In this poem and in many other Bible verses, the Old Testament writers command God’s people to be fair. This message is very important. We see it in the writing of God’s special messengers and in Jesus’ teachings.

God does not keep secret the things He expects His followers to do. God tells us in Micah 6:8: “The Lord has told you what is good [holy]. He has told you what he wants from you: Do what is right [fair] to other people. Love being kind [nice] to others. And live humbly [with no pride in your heart], trusting your God” (ICB).

We read this same message all through the Bible. Jesus said, “ ‘All people will know that you are my followers if you love each other’ ” (John 13:35, ERV).

`How would our families and churches be different if we followed Micah 6:8? How can you show this important rule in your life?`