---
title:  God Wants Us To Be Fair
date:   19/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The prophets in the Bible were God’s special messengers. The prophets told the leaders of Israel to be fair. Again and again, the Bible warns us not to hurt people and to be fair. When the prophets asked God to punish evil, they were really asking God to fill the land with leaders who were fair and showed mercy to the people.

The prophet Isaiah talks about the evil happening in Israel in his day. His message to the people was about being fair in everything they did. This message is important for us today. “ ‘Learn to do good. Look for what is right [correct] and fair. Speak strong words to those who make it hard for people. Stand up for the rights [needs] of those [people] who have no parents. Help the woman whose husband has died’ ” (Isaiah 1:17, NLV). Isaiah also warns the leaders “ ‘who write evil laws and make life hard for the people. They are not fair to the poor’ ” (Isaiah 10:1, 2, ERV). Then Isaiah asks these leaders, “ ‘What will you do on the day when the Lord punishes you? On that day trouble will come from far away. Who will you run to for help? Who will you trust your riches with?’ ” (Isaiah 10:3, NIrV).

In the same way, the prophet Jeremiah announces God’s message. He warns that God will judge the king “ ‘who builds his palace by [with] doing evil. He cheats people so he can build its upper rooms. He is making his own people work for nothing. He is not paying them for their work. . . . Your father was satisfied [happy] to have food and drink. He did what was right [holy] and fair. So everything went well for him. He helped those who were poor and needy. So everything went well for him. That’s what it means to know God,’ says the Lord” (Jeremiah 22:13, 15, 16, ICB).

`Read Matthew 23:23–30. What are “the really important teachings of [in] the law” (verse 23, ERV) that Jesus talks about?`

Jesus cared about being fair. He said, “ ‘You who pretend to be someone you are not! You give one-tenth part of your spices, and have not done the most important things of the Law, such as [like or as in the following examples] thinking what is right and wrong, and having pity and faith. These you should have done and still [continue to] have done the other things also’ ” (Matthew 23:23, NLV).