---
title:  What Does The Lord Really Want?
date:   20/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Luke’s story about Jesus, Jesus announces to a lawyer that the two most important commandments are love for God and love for our neighbor. Then the lawyer “wanted to make himself look good [holy]. So he asked Jesus, ‘And who is my neighbor?’ ” (Luke 10:29, NIrV). Jesus answers the man’s question with the surprising picture story about the good Samaritan.

`Read the picture story about the good Samaritan in Luke 10:25–37. What are these verses saying about being fair and showing mercy?`

Jesus did more than talk about being fair. Jesus lived the sermon He preached about being fair. Jesus was, and will be, the answer to His people’s prayer for fair leaders (read Luke 4:16–21, along with Isaiah 61:1, 2). Jesus is the Savior that all people need.

Satan is completely different from Jesus. Satan wanted to steal God’s power and His throne. But Jesus became a human so that He could help sinners who are hurting and suffering. Jesus won the fight against the enemy when He gave up His life to save us. Can we really say we are Christians if we don’t care about being fair and showing mercy?

Psalm 9:8, 9 announces, “The Lord will judge the world by [with] what is right [holy and fair]. He will decide what is fair for the nations [people groups]. The Lord defends those [people] who suffer. He protects them in times of trouble” (ICB). The writer of Psalm 146:7–9 adds, “He does what is right [holy; good] for those who have been hurt. He gives food to the hungry. The Lord frees people locked up in prison. The Lord makes the blind see again. The Lord helps those [people] who are in trouble. The Lord loves those who do right [are fair]. The Lord protects strangers in our country. He cares for widows and orphans, but he destroys the wicked” (ERV).

As we see, the Bible plainly tells us that we should help people all around us who are in need and hurting.

`What can we learn from Jesus’ life and work about helping people in need? Maybe we can’t do miracles the way Jesus did. But how can the help that we do give be a “miracle,” too?`