---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   21/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Sabbath,” pages 281–289, in The Desire of Ages.

“Jesus asked the Jewish spiritual leaders a question. Was it against the law on the Sabbath day to save or to kill? When Jesus asked this question, He showed the leaders the evil plan that was in their hearts. The leaders hated Jesus. Their hate made them very angry. The leaders wanted to kill Him. While the leaders wanted to kill Jesus, Jesus was saving lives and making many people happy. Was it better to kill on the Sabbath, as they wanted to, than to heal the sick, as Jesus did? Was it more holy on the Sabbath day to have a heart filled with hate and with a wish to kill than to love all people? When we love people, we will show them mercy.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 287, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“Every false religion teaches its followers not to care about human needs.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 287, adapted. Why and how is this quote correct? What can we decide to do to show that we care about people’s needs in our church and in our community?`

`Who is my neighbor? Who is your neighbor? How should following Jesus make us more loving and caring, the same as the Samaritan? Remember, the Samaritan went out of his way to show love.`

`God loves being fair and showing mercy. How should we live so that our lives show what matters most to God? What things can we do personally to pay more attention to “ ‘the really important teachings of [in] the law’ ” (Matthew 23:23) that Jesus talked about?`

`When Jesus talked about God’s work as judge, He often talked about it along with the topic of love. When God does His work as Judge, He will ask how much did we show that we really love other people? How much do we stand up for people who have been hurt or punished for no reason? Read Matthew 25:31–46 as you seek to answer these questions.`