---
title:  'Picture Story: The Farmer'
date:   21/07/2024
---

`Read the picture story about the farmer in Mark 4:1–9. Mark talks about four different types of earth or ground. Name these four types and explain how they are dif­ferent from each other. What happens to the seed that falls on them?`

When people read Jesus’ picture stories, they often want to read through them fast to get to the ending. They want to know about the lesson that Jesus wishes to teach. But Jesus often doesn’t give us long explanations at the end of His picture stories.

So, we should slow down when we read each story and try to understand its meaning. Then we will understand better many of the ideas and lessons that the story is meant to teach us. In the picture story about the farmer, the same type of seed falls on four different types of dirt. The type of dirt changes what happens to the seed. The picture story about the farmer is really four stories in one.

What happens to the seeds? When the seeds fall on the road, the birds eat them. “While the farmer was planting, some seed fell by the road. The birds came and ate all that seed” (Mark 4:4, ICB).

What happens to the seeds that fall on the rocky dirt? The sun burns them a few days later, and they die.

Some seeds fall in the thorny weeds. The weeds and thorns stop the seeds from growing, and they die, too.

Some seeds fall on the dirt in the field. These seeds grow all spring, summer, and fall until the farmer has a full crop.

The first three seed stories are about failure. The final story is about success. The picture story teaches us about what it means to be a follower of Jesus. Yes, there are risks. But God will reward us in a big way for following His Son.

`What are some other spiritual lessons that nature teaches us?`