---
title:  Jesus’ Explanation
date:   22/07/2024
---

Jesus finished the picture story about the farmer. But He did not explain it right away. Mark 4:1 tells us that Jesus told the picture story in front of a big crowd of people. Later, Jesus explained the picture story when He was with a small group.

`How does Jesus explain the picture story about the farmer? Read Mark 4:13–20 for the answer.`

Jesus’ explanation helps us to understand that the story is a picture story.

Jesus says that the seed is a symbol for the Word, which is the Bible. James 1:21 says, “So get rid of everything that is sinful. Get rid of the evil that is all around us. Don’t be too proud [filled with pride] to accept the word [the Bible] that is planted [put] in you. It [the Bible] can save you” (NIrV).

The different types of dirt are the different types of people who hear Jesus’ message. In Jesus’ explanation, everyone hears Bible truth. His message is preached to everyone. But not everyone acts the same way when they hear it. The dirt on the road is hard, and the birds quickly grab the seed. Jesus says that the birds show us how Satan quickly takes a belief in Bible truth away from the people who hear it. Rocky dirt is not deep. So, this dirt is a symbol for people who make empty promises. They say they want to follow Jesus. But they haven’t really thought about how much following Him will cost them in this life. The dirt filled with weeds causes the seeds that fall on it to die. Jesus explains that this weedy dirt is a symbol for riches and the cares of life. These things destroy our love for Bible truth. The good soil causes things to grow. This soil is a symbol for the people who hear Jesus’ message and accept it. Then Bible truth grows in the heart and makes a big “crop.”

The longest explanations are for the rocky dirt and the weedy dirt. The people who are the same as the rocky dirt accept Jesus’ message with joy. But when they must suffer for their faith, they reject the message. The people who are the same as the weedy dirt don’t reject the message because of hard times. They reject the message because of good times. They love the things this life offers them more than they love God.