---
title:  The Reason That Jesus Told Picture Stories
date:   23/07/2024
---

`Why did Jesus use picture stories to teach His lessons? Read Mark 4:10–12 for the answer.`

We must pay careful attention to Jesus’ words in Mark 4:10–12 to understand what He is saying. These verses use a quote from Isaiah 6:9, 10. If you don’t read these verses carefully, you may get the wrong idea. You may think that Jesus used picture stories to hide what He was really saying from some people. But that idea is false. Jesus wanted to help people understand and accept His teachings.

In Mark 3:5, 6, the hard hearts of the Jewish leaders make Jesus sad. In Mark 3:22–30, Jesus takes time to explain why their ideas are wrong. In Mark 12:1–12, the Jewish leaders understand that Jesus’ picture story is really about them. Jesus tells the picture story to warn the leaders about what will happen if they try to kill Him. Jesus cares for the leaders. So, He tries to warn them.

`Read Isaiah 6:1–13. What happened to Isaiah? What message does the Lord give Isaiah to tell Israel?`

Isaiah sees a vision of God’s glory in the temple. Isaiah feels very dirty when he sees this vision. God makes Isaiah clean. Then God tells Isaiah to give Israel a surprising message. The message is meant to warn the people to stop doing evil.

In Mark 4:10–12, we find the same message. These verses help us understand why Jesus used picture stories to teach. If we want to understand Jesus’ words and teachings, we must obey God. When we obey God, we will become part of Jesus’ family (Mark 3:35). The Jews who decided that Jesus was filled with Satan won’t listen to His message or obey Him.

Jesus quotes Isaiah 6 to show us an important Bible truth: God doesn’t keep people out of heaven because He is mean. Their own ideas and hard hearts keep them from accepting saving truth.

Each one of us chooses what type of “dirt” we will become. Everyone decides if they will, or will not, surrender to Jesus. In the end, we make the choice.