---
title:  'Picture Stories: Lamp and Measuring Basket'
date:   24/07/2024
---

`Read the picture story about the lamp in Mark 4:21–23. What important lesson does Jesus teach in this story?`

In Jesus’ day, many houses were built around a yard. The yard had walls around it. Some houses were big. Other houses were small. Big or small, the house is a word picture that teaches us an important rule: in the future, everyone will know the Bible truth about Jesus.

Jesus asks two questions in Mark 4:21. “ ‘Do you bring in a lamp to put it under a large bowl or a bed?’ ” (NIrV). Of course not! Next, Jesus asks, “ ‘Don’t you put it [the lamp] on its stand?’ ” (NIrV). Of course you do! Lamps give light. If a lamp doesn’t give light, why keep it? Mark 4:22 explains the picture story about the lamp. Everything secret will be made public. Jesus is talking about the Good News.

`Read the picture story about the measuring basket in Mark 4:24, 25. What lesson does Jesus teach us in this picture story?`

In many places on earth, fresh fruit and vegetables are sold in outdoor markets. Sellers use a basket to measure how much the fruit or vegetable weighs. The basket helps the sellers to figure out how much money the food costs. Some sellers add extra food to a sale to help their buyers feel that they are getting a good deal. Jesus uses this idea about how sellers are fair to buyers to teach an important Bible truth. If we follow Bible truth, God will give us more knowledge. But if we reject the Bible truth that God gives us, we will lose the small amount of Bible truth that we had.

`How can we learn better the important rule that God will show us the same mercy that we show to other people? Think about this rule in all your friendships and relationships with other people.`