---
title:  'Two Picture Stories: The Growing Seed and the Mustard Seed'
date:   25/07/2024
---

`Read the picture story in Mark 4:26–29. What impor­tant lesson does this picture story teach?`

This picture story talks about growth. People help the kingdom of God to grow. But the real growth happens because of God’s work. The story ends when the grain or wheat becomes full grown. In the same way, when Jesus comes back, history will end.

`Read the picture story in Mark 4:30–32. What impor­tant lesson do we learn from this story about the mustard seed?`

This picture story shows how something very tiny grows into something very big. Mustard seeds are as small as 1 to 2 millimeters in size (0.039 to 0.079 inches). The plant in the picture story may be the black mustard. The black mustard plant has tiny seeds (more than 700 seeds in one gram). Black mustard seeds aren’t the smallest seeds on earth. But they are very small compared to the plant they become. The full-grown black mustard plant can grow as large as 3 meters (10 feet) tall. Jesus says that birds nest in the branches of the mustard plant. This word picture about the birds helps us remember Psalm 104:12 and Daniel 4:10–12. In Psalm 104:12, the poet talks about our powerful God who made the earth. Daniel 4 compares King Nebuchadnezzar to a tree who gives food and protection to all the people on the earth.

Jesus wants us to understand that the kingdom of God is the same as the mustard seed in the way that it grows. God’s kingdom is small at first. But it grows and becomes very large.

People in Jesus’ day may have laughed at Jesus and wondered how His words will happen when He had a small group of followers. But time has shown that His kingdom continues to grow and fill the earth.

> <p></p>
> “ ‘The Good News about God’s kingdom will be preached in all the world [earth], to every nation [people group]. Then the end will come’ ” (Matthew 24:14, ICB).

`Think about how small the “church” was when Jesus said these words. Why is this promise so wonderful for us today? How does it make our faith grow strong?`