---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   26/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘The Sower Went Forth to Sow,’ ” pages 33–61, in _Christ’s Object Lessons_.

“How do you become holy? You give your whole self to God and serve Him. Jesus asks for our whole heart. He wants us to give Him our minds, our spirits, and our strength, too. We must not be selfish. If we live for ourselves, we are not Christians.

“Love must be the reason for everything we do. Love is the foundation of God’s government in heaven and on earth. Our words, thoughts, and feelings must show our love. Only love will make us loyal and keep us loyal to God. Love will help us to stay strong when Satan tries to get us to sin.

“We show our love in the things we give up for Jesus. God’s plan to save us includes the gift He gave to save us. Jesus gave up everything to save us. When we accept Jesus, we will be ready to give up everything for Jesus. We will put Him first in our lives. We will care more about His honor and glory than anything else.”—Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_, pages 48, 49, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“Love must be the reason for everything we do. Love is the foundation of God’s government in heaven and on earth.” How does the Cross show this amazing Bible truth to us? How can we show this same love in our own lives? Why must we do so?`

`What if someone said that Jesus told picture stories to keep His teachings a secret from some people? Would Jesus really do that when He died for everyone on earth (read 1 John 2:2)? Explain your answer.`

`We put lamps on lampstands, not under baskets (Mark 4:21)! How does this important rule help you to “shine” the same as a light in your community? How can you make your light shine more brightly?`

`Think some more about the picture story in Mark 4:26–29. How do we help “plant” the Good News in people’s hearts? Also, how do we help the Good News to “grow”? What is God’s part in this work? Why do we need to depend on God for everything if we want to grow?`