---
title:  Living the Law
date:   23/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 21:1–32; Exodus 22:16–23:9; Exodus 23:20–33; Matthew 5:38–48; Romans 12:19.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Say this [message] to the people of Israel: “You have seen for yourselves that I have spoken to you from heaven. Do not make any gods other than Me. Do not make for yourselves gods of silver or gods of gold” ’ ” (Exodus 20:22, 23, NLV).

God wanted His people to be different from the other people around them. God wanted the Israelites to be a community of faith who lived under His leadership. Everyone would obey His law. Judges would punish people who broke the law. Priests or spiritual leaders would teach the law. Parents also had an important part in this work.

The laws of a country show us its beliefs. They also show us who the lawmaker is. When Pharaoh, king of Egypt, ordered the Egyptians to kill every newborn Hebrew boy, this law showed us the evil in his heart. Compare Pharaoh and his evil law with a king who makes a law that every 18-year-old person in his kingdom gets to go to school for free. Many people would think this law was proof that the king was kind, giving, and wanted his citizens to succeed.

God’s law shows us who He is. He is loving, good, and holy. The law shows us how God punishes evil. The law is fair, and so is God. The law protects us from dangers and disasters. We must respect God and other people. We must love God’s law. When we do these things, we live the law, just as God planned for His people, the Israelites, to do.