---
title:  More Laws For Everyday Life
date:   24/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

At Sinai, God gave Israel the Ten Commandments. The law taught God’s people how to live holy lives. The people must stay connected to God for that to happen. So, God gave His people more laws for everyday life. The judges were responsible for protecting these laws and helping people to follow them correctly.

“Not long ago, the people were slaves. Their minds weren’t ready to fully understand the Ten Commandments. So, God gave His people more laws for everyday life. These laws helped the people understand the Ten Commandments better. The leaders of Israel used these laws to judge problems in Israel. God gave Moses the Ten Commandments in front of the people. But God gave the laws for everyday life to Moses in private. Then Moses gave them to the people.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 310, adapted.

`Read Exodus 21:1–32. What laws did God give the people about Hebrew slaves, killing, and body injuries?`

We can read the laws that God gave His people for everyday life in Exodus 21:1–23:19. God gave these laws to His people to stop evil and to build a strong community.

The slavery laws were special. Slavery among the Israelites was different from slavery in the Middle Ages or in modern times. Hebrew slaves were protected. The Israelites cared about them. In the Middle Ages and in modern times, servants and slaves were property. They belonged to their owners who could do whatever they wished with their slaves. Bible laws about slavery were different from modern slave laws or slave laws in the Middle Ages. In the Bible, slavery was limited to six years (Exodus 21:1, 2; Jeremiah 34:8–22). In the seventh year, all slaves must be allowed to go free. A slave could choose to stay with his master at this time. Masters had to give their slaves or servants the Sabbath off (Exodus 20:9, 10). Masters also must take care of their servants’ basic needs.

`In most places today, slavery is not legal. Sad to say, slavery continues to be a problem. What are ways that we see slavery today? What can we do to fight against it?`