---
title:  Some More Laws
date:   25/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God in His mercy taught the judges of Israel how to solve problems about owning property. God told the judges what to do if someone’s bull attacked his neighbor’s bull. Or if a person stole an animal from someone’s flock and sold it. Or if animals ate in a crop field or grape field that someone else owned. Or what to do when a person borrowed something from someone, and the borrowed thing got stolen. Or what to do if a rented animal was injured or died (Exodus 21:33–22:15).

`Read about the laws in Exodus 22:16–23:9. What problems do these laws help to solve? How do they solve them?`

God’s laws talked about different problems. There were laws against shaming people or putting them down. God did not want His people to use anyone in any way at all. In His mercy, God corrects the evil things we want to do and controls the bad things we want to do. God wanted to keep communities safe, to remove evil, and for people to have good personal relationships with each other. So His people must be fair and loving in all their actions and decisions.

`Read Exodus 23:10–19. What important topics and celebrations do these verses talk about?`

The Sabbath and the festivals were about worship. These celebrations helped people remember special things that happened in Israel’s history. Worship was the reason for everything the Israelites did. So, God gave the Israelites many important rules to help them understand how to worship Him. God made the Sabbath at Creation (Genesis 2:2, 3; Exodus 20:8–11). The Sabbath was connected to many important happenings in Israel’s history: to the Exodus and to God’s saving mercy (Deuteronomy 5:12–15). The Exodus was the time when God helped the Israelites escape from slavery in Egypt. In a powerful way, the Sabbath helps us remember that God made us. The Sabbath also helps us remember God as our Lord and Savior (Mark 2:27, 28).

The Israelites also celebrated three important festivals every year: (1) the Passover in the spring; (2) Pentecost seven weeks later; and (3) the Feast of Tabernacles in the fall.