---
title:  God’s First Plan
date:   26/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How did God plan to get the Promised Land for His people? Read Exodus 23:20–33 for the answer.`

God didn’t plan for the Israelites to fight for their new land. God would give them the land. God promised the land to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God wanted to give Israel the land as a special gift.

The Lord showed Israel how He would give them the Promised Land. We can see for ourselves God’s plan in the story about how God helped Israel cross the Red Sea: God fought for His people. God gave them a total win over the Egyptians, who planned to kill them (Exodus 14:13, 14). The Egyptians were destroyed because God helped Israel. In the same way, God later destroyed the Assyrian army of King Sennacherib. The Assyrian army was big and had better training and weapons than Israel’s army. But God saved Israel without their needing to fight. God fought for Israel and won because King Hezekiah believed God’s promise from Isaiah (2 Kings 19:35; Isaiah 37:36).

God told Abraham that He wouldn’t give his future children the Promised Land right away. They must wait 400 years (Genesis 15:13–16). Why? Because God in His mercy wanted to save the people in the land of Canaan, who were very evil. So, God gave them time to confess their sins. But the people continued to fight against God and His law. So when the people in this land made their final decision to turn against God forever, God was ready to give their land to the Hebrews as their new home.

Also, God promised that He would cause the people in Canaan to leave in two special ways: (1) God would fill their hearts with fear, and (2) God would send hornets to drive them out. Before the Israelites arrived in the new land, their enemies would run away (Exodus 23:27, 28).

The Angel of God has an important part in winning the Promised Land for Israel. This Angel or Messenger was Jesus. Jesus led Israel, won land, and protected His people and their land. Jesus was in the tall cloud that led them during the day and the cloud of fire that led them during the night. Israel needed to pay careful attention and listen to Jesus because He was their Leader (Exodus 23:21). If the people didn’t obey Jesus or believe in His leadership, they would have trouble succeeding.