---
title:  An Eye For An Eye
date:   27/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Matthew 5:38–48. In these verses, Jesus discusses the Old Testament law about revenge and getting even. What does Jesus say this law means? How should we understand this law today in our own lives?`

In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus uses quotes from the Old Testament. The people who heard Jesus’ sermon knew these verses well. But Jesus wasn’t satisfied with how the Jewish leaders explained these verses. For hundreds of years, the teachings of the Jewish leaders hid the true meaning of the Bible more and more. The leaders made their own man-made rules more important than Bible truth. Worse, these leaders changed the real meaning of the verses. In His Sermon, Jesus helps the people understand the real meaning of these laws. Jesus wanted to correct some of the false teachings about these Old Testament laws.

The verse from Exodus 21:24 talks about “an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.” Jesus uses this quote in Matthew 5:38. This rule is named the “lex talionis,” or the law for getting even. This verse from Exodus 21:24 also is used in other places in the Bible (Leviticus 24:20; Deuteronomy 19:21).

God made this law to stop people from taking personal revenge against anyone. God wanted to stop people from getting even without first judging what happened. Judges needed to examine the injury. Then they would decide how much money someone owed for the injury and told him to pay it. The judges did this work to stop people from “taking the law into their own hands.” The judges must be fair. Their decisions must honor God’s law.

Jesus gave these special laws to Moses. Jesus understood the reason for this law. So, Jesus could use this law in the correct way. The reason for the law was to make sure that the judges’ decisions were fair. The law, if followed, would repair broken relationships and bring peace.

In a way, a fair decision includes satisfying our need for revenge. That’s because we must try to make things right at the same time that we try to be fair.

`In the future, God will make everything right. How should this idea help you live with anything in life that isn’t fair right now?`