---
title:  Revenge
date:   28/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

> <p></p>
> “ ‘My dear friends, don’t try to get even. Leave room for God to show his anger. It is written, “I am the God who judges people. I will pay them back,” (Deuteronomy 32:35) says the Lord’ ” (Romans 12:19, NIrV).

`What promise and command do you find in the verse above? How are they both connected to each other?`

Until God makes everything right, the judges of ancient Israel must decide how to punish someone who injured or hurt another person. But first the judges needed information about what happened. The problem in Jesus’ day was that the teachers of the law used the law in Deuteronomy 32:35 in a way that allowed people to get even. When that happened, the law was used in the wrong way. Then the whole reason for the law was no longer understood. Worse, the teachers of the law used the law to allow things that the law really said were forbidden!

`Read Matthew 6:4, 6; Matthew 16:27; Luke 6:23; and 2 Timothy 4:8. What do these verses tell us about how Jesus understood the rules about reward and punishment?`

Jesus wasn’t against the rules of reward and punishment. Fair decisions are an important part of life. But no person should make himself a judge over another person, decide his guilt, and then punish him! We must not get even. If someone has done us wrong, we must let a judge in court decide what should be done.

Jesus then tells us to be as perfect as our Father in heaven, who is perfect. How can we be as perfect as God Himself? We must not be selfish, and we must love other people. In doing so, we show people God’s love. God teaches His followers to pray for the people who hurt and attack them. Being perfect, then, is to love, to be forgiving, and to be kind (Luke 6:36), even to people who are not good to you. When we follow this important rule, our hearts will be changed. Then we will show everyone God’s love.

`What are some ways, day by day, that we can learn to love as God commands us to love? Why does this love always include our dying to self?`