---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   29/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Law Given to Israel,” pages 310–314, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

We live in the land of our enemy, Satan. So we may feel hurt in real life because of his evil plans and lies. Sad to say, pain and suffering are part of life now. But God helps us to stand strong in hard times.

“The precious Savior will send help just when we need it most. Jesus shows us the road to heaven. He walked this same road for us. Every pain that hurts us hurt Him first. Jesus carried before we did every heavy load we must carry. The Lord allows us to have troubles and hard times. Hard times get us ready for peace. The time of trouble will be a terrible time for God’s people. But during that time, we must look up. With faith, we will see the rainbow of promise that is around Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 633, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Many Christians, now and in the past, try to understand why the Lord chased the non-Jewish people out of their countries. Sometimes God destroyed them completely. Yes, these stories are hard to understand. But God’s love is fair. How should we trust that God’s love was shown in these stories about people who were forced to leave their countries if they didn’t obey God?`

`Jesus tells us to “ ‘be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect’ ” (Matthew 5:48, NKJV). Why would Jesus say this command right after His commands to love our enemies and the people who hate us? What was Jesus telling us here about what it means to be “perfect” as our Father in heaven?`

`What does Paul mean when he says that “you are not under law. You now live under God’s grace [mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin]”? (Romans 6:14, ERV). How can we use God’s law in the wrong way?`

`Compare being fair with getting even. Are these two ideas completely different? Or are they two different ways of talking about the same idea? How do we know if our wish for a fair decision is not really a wish for revenge?`