---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/03/2019
---

“None but those who have fortified the mind with the truths of the Bible will stand through the last great conflict. To every soul will come the searching test: Shall I obey God rather than men? . . . The apostle Paul declared, looking down to the last days: ‘The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine.’ 2 Timothy 4:3. That time has fully come. The multitudes do not want Bible truth, because it interferes with the desires of the sinful, world-loving heart; and Satan supplies the deceptions which they love.

“But God will have a people upon the earth to maintain the Bible, and the Bible only, as the standard of all doctrines and the basis of all reforms. The opinions of learned men, the deductions of science, the creeds or decisions of ecclesiastical councils, as numerous and discordant as are the churches which they represent, the voice of the majority—not one nor all of these should be regarded as evidence for or against any point of religious faith. Before accepting any doctrine or precept, we should demand a plain ‘Thus saith the Lord’ in its support. . . .

“As the crowning act in the great drama of deception, Satan himself will personate Christ. The church has long professed to look to the Saviour’s advent as the consummation of her hopes. Now the great deceiver will make it appear that Christ has come. In different parts of the earth, Satan will manifest himself among men as a majestic being of dazzling brightness, resembling the description of the Son of God given by John in the Revelation. Revelation 1:13–15. The glory that surrounds him is unsurpassed by anything that mortal eyes have yet beheld. The shout of triumph rings out upon the air: ‘Christ has come! Christ has come!’ The people prostrate themselves in adoration before him. . . . In gentle, compassionate tones he presents some of the same gracious, heavenly truths which the Saviour uttered; he heals the diseases of the people, and then, in his assumed character of Christ, he claims to have changed the Sabbath to Sunday, and commands all to hallow the day which he has blessed. He declares that those who persist in keeping holy the seventh day are blaspheming his name by refusing to listen to his angels sent to them with light and truth. This is the strong, almost overmastering delusion.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 593–595, 624.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read Jesus’ admonition in Revelation 16:15, inserted into the description of the preparation for the battle of Armageddon. Note the similar wording in Christ’s earlier appeal to the church of Laodicea (Rev. 3:18). How do Christ’s words show the significance of the Laodicean message for God’s people living at the time of the preparation for the final conflict? In what way does this message apply to you personally?`

`White and clean garments in Revelation symbolize the righteousness of Christ (Rev. 3:4, 5; Rev. 19:7–9). Only those who clothe themselves with the robe of Christ’s righteousness will be able to stand firm in the final crisis. How does one make his or her robes white and clean in the blood of the Lamb (Rev. 7:14)?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Maranatha_, “The Threefold Union of Religion,” p. 190;

_Selected Messages_, book 3, “To Restore, Not Tear Down,” p. 18.