---
title:  The Source of Disunity
date:  18/08/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 15:1

Scripture teaches us that wherever sin abounds, grace abounds even more (Romans 5:20). History reveals the converse to be, likewise, true— whenever God is at work in the lives of men and women, Satan is always at hand, ever seeking to uproot and counteract the work of grace. Whenever doctrinal or interpersonal conflicts threaten the unity of our churches, our institutions, or our families, we may be sure that Satan is at work, seeking to divide and destroy God’s people from within.

This was never truer than in the early Christian church. The Holy Spirit had been poured out at Pentecost, the believers were united in their love for Christ and for each other, and souls were being daily added to the church. This unity of spirit and mission was especially pronounced in Antioch, a major Greco-Roman city, which served as a center for missionary activity. God was at work in Antioch, and the church was thriving.

It was here in Antioch, one of the major centers of early Christianity, that the devil sought to bring disunity and division among God’s people. The Bible tells us that “certain men who came down from Judea taught the brethren, and said, ‘Unless ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved’ ” (Acts 15:1, KJ21). This false doctrine soon began to cause controversy among the believers, in the process bringing to light suppressed feelings of pride and bigotry, which had heretofore remained beneath the surface. The controversy over circumcision eventually swelled to crisis proportions, bringing the Antioch church to a standstill and forcing Paul and Barnabas to travel to Jerusalem to resolve it.

By the grace of God, the leaders of the early church were able to fully resolve this crisis through what is now referred to as the Jerusalem Council.

However, not all church leaders since that time have found such success. Since the days of the early church, theological conflicts and controversies have split churches, turned families against each other, and caused untold men and women to lose their grip on Christ.

In the church today, we face similar challenges. Satan is ever seeking to divide and conquer the people of God, and our generation is no exception. If we would triumph where those before us have failed, we must learn from those who have overcome before us. Let us prayerfully study the examples set by the faithful leaders of the early church that we might gain wisdom for our present-day needs.

_Seth D. Roberts, Walla Walla, Washington, USA_