---
title:  In the Multitude of Counselors
date:  19/08/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 15

A number of issues threatened the unity of the early Christian church, but by far the most divisive was the question of whether the Gentile believers had to be circumcised in order to be saved. Acts 10 records that Peter had baptized Cornelius and other uncircumcised Gentiles; at the time, the apostles had concluded that if Gentiles could receive the Holy Spirit without circumcision, then they could also be saved without circumcision (Acts 11:1–18). But the issue was far from resolved, and “certain men . . . from Judea” debated hotly with Paul and Barnabas about whether circumcision was a requirement for salvation (Acts 15:1, 2). Both sides were adamant that they were in the right, and at last in a.d. 50 the early church organized the Jerusalem Council to prayerfully resolve the controversy.1

The Jerusalem Council demonstrates that when God’s people gather to seek His will in humility and prayer, the Holy Spirit can and will guide them. The gathered leaders have no authority over the Scriptures, and leaders must be held accountable to Scripture. A council is not automatically right. But when leaders humble themselves before God and one another and prayerfully search the Scriptures, God will bless them with wisdom and insight from His Word to provide a biblical answer. Thus, we must guard against two errors: the error of rejecting organization and the counsel of leaders and the error of accepting the words of councils without comparing them to Scripture.

The Jerusalem Council began with “much disputing” (Acts 15:7), but it endedwith the brethren “assembled with one accord” (Acts 15:25). The Greek of Acts 15:25 suggests that the decision was unanimous.2 Upon hearing all the evidence, the assembled leaders saw how the Holy Spirit was leading, and they concluded that circumcision was not to be required of Gentiles (Acts 15:28, 29); this was then communicated to the local churches. Thus, the Jerusalem Council stands as a vital example of godly leadership in action and provides a model for us today of how to seek God’s will in controversial issues.

**React**

`Have you ever seen a group of believers work through a disagreement?`

`From an Adventist perspective, what principles have you witnessed that help believers work through conflict?`

_Tanner Martin, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_