---
title:  Overcoming Disunity in the Early Church
date:  20/08/2018
---

**Logos**: Exod. 12:43–49;Acts 15:1–5, 7–11, 13–33;Gal. 3:28; 5:6;Rom. 3:30;1 Cor. 7:18

**The Issue (Acts 15:1–5)**

Certain men came down from Judea and began to cause dissension. Why they decided to come down, we do not know exactly, but it is likely that they did in response to the report that God had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles in Acts 14:27. They were also possibly connected with those mentioned in Acts 11:2, 3 who contended with Peter when he visited Cornelius. God had previously revealed that the gospel was also to go to the Gentiles in Acts 11:17, 18, but not all were thrilled about that happening without perfect conformity by the Gentiles on this matter of circumcision.

**Circumcision (Exod. 12:43–49; Rom. 3:30; 1 Cor. 7:18; Gal. 3:28; 5:6)**

Circumcision was originally established as a sign of God’s covenant with Abram in Genesis 17. God had called Abram to walk before Him and be blameless. The sign of that covenant was circumcision (verse 10). Of all things, why circumcision? It’s important to note that this came right after Abram had tried to help God’s promise come to fruition through having a child by Hagar in the previous chapter. By making circumcision the sign, God was effectively communicating to Abram that He was perfectly capable of bringing His plans to pass without Abram manipulating the variables in the face of apparent impossibility.

What God required was Abram’s faith and trust first. Only when those were the basis of his every act could Abraham be accounted righteous and justified in connection with his actions (James 2:21–23).

Paul makes his side of the argument clear in 1 Corinthians 7:18, 19: the root issue in question is not circumcision or uncircumcision but keeping the commandments of God. For the Jews, there seemed to be an inherent virtue in circumcision itself. Paul completely obliterates that notion. How do we keep the commandments? Galatians 5:6 suggests that it is more about faith working through love.

So why was circumcision of the Gentiles such an issue in Acts? One reason was the Passover, which could be partaken of only by those who were circumcised (Exod. 12:48). And yet, Jesus was the true Passover Lamb according to 1 Corinthians 5:7, so it follows that the Gentiles should not be required to keep the Passover as a ceremony because it had already been fulfilled by Jesus (Col. 2:16, 17). Nevertheless, rather than dispute it further without proper process and recognition of input from the rest of the early church leadership, Paul and Barnabas went to Jerusalem to settle the question with the apostles and elders. In so doing, the final decision would be something that the early church could adopt with the hope that it would minimize further disunity, as may well have been the case if there was no official statement on the topic.

**The Debate (Acts 15:7–11, 13–21)**

Peter’s response during the Jerusalem Council is extremely revealing. He puts almost no focus on circumcision itself but instead demonstrates how God was already at work in the lives of uncircumcised Gentiles. Rather than requiring the act of circumcision to accept the Gentiles and work powerfully in their lives, God purified their hearts by faith, as Peter points out in Acts 15:9. Thus, the work of circumcision was not a critical element that they should be concerned about. In fact, one could derive that being circumcised thereafter would actually be an attempt to add personal merit by a personal action, an idea that circumcision itself was originally established to correct. Peter’s focus on mission and the work of God in furthering the gospel was something that all could agree with and rally around. This focus spoke to a passion that should be within all followers of Christ—a passion to let others know about the transforming and redeeming power of God.

It should also not be overlooked that James, in response to Peter, did not rely on personal experience alone to determine whether or not circumcision was acceptable for the Gentiles to be saved. He intentionally cited at least two other witnesses. He mentions both Simon Peter and the words of the prophets (specifically quoting Amos 9:11, 12) to fully establish this position (Acts 15:14– 18). So we see the importance of grounding every viewpoint not only in how God is working through and around us but also in what He has communicated to us through His Word.

**The Apostolic Decree (Acts 15:28, 29)**

The decree that is finally sent out is couched in language that makes it clear that the decision by the church was unanimous (verse 25). Just in case any might be tempted to doubt, Paul and Barnabas were accompanied by Judas and Silas, who were leaders and representatives of the early church (verse 22). What was forbidden by the decree, instead, were several matters that could have been detrimental to the unity, witness, and Christianity of the new Gentile converts.

**The Letter From Jerusalem (Acts 15:22–33)**

Certainly, circumcision would have been a hard thing to expect of them, so one can imagine that they were pleased when it was not expressed as a requirement. Paul and Silas remained longer to continue ministering to and discipling these new converts.

**React**

`1. How can we ensure that unity and mission are at the forefront when there are controversies threatening to consume our time and attention?`

`2. How should we relate to the church and others when an outcome may or may not agree with our personal viewpoint?`

_Eric Louw, Dallas, Texas, USA_