---
title:  Conflict Management 101
date:  22/08/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 15;Phil. 2:3;Eph. 6:12

Since the beginning of sin, believers and unbelievers alike have struggled with working through differences and getting along in spite of them. Even a general reading of Acts reveals the misunderstandings, miscommunication, frustration, lack of cohesiveness, and disunity among the church members and leadership of this fledgling group of believers. How did they handle their differences? How did the members this small group of 120 grow through their challenges and differences of opinions and continue to advance the work of the gospel so powerfully? What can we learn from the early church that will aid us today in dealing with conflict within the church?

It is OK to have respectful conversation and even well-mannered debate about essential points of our faith. In Acts 15 we see Paul and Barnabas having “no small dissension and dispute” with those who believed circumcision was necessary for salvation (verses 2, 7). It is sometimes necessary, in order to reach a right conclusion, to go back and forth sharing thoughts and opinions and reasoning with one another. But we must always remember Philippians 2:3, “Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself” (NKJV). Humility and true conversion are key in engaging in healthy conflict within the church.

Just because someone might have theology different from yours doesn’t make them an enemy. When we disagree on anything—from theology to what color the new church carpet should be—we must always remember that our fellow church member is not the enemy! Our wrestling is never against flesh and blood but always against “principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age” (Eph. 6:12, NKJV).

Allow God’s Word to remedy the situation. In Acts 15, both Peter and James stand up and reason from God’s Word, which is the rule of authority. Whatever the issue at hand is, be determined to study God’s Word and follow the inspired counsel no matter the cost. There is a remedy for every single situation we may face. It is only a matter of being determined to seek, find, and follow counsel.

**React**

`1. In light of the Great Commission, why is conflict management a crucial skill for each church member to have?`

`2. What are some practical examples you’ve seen of church members who were able to handle conflict in a positive, God-honoring way?`

`3. Are there times when being “right” is not as important as being “righteous” in the way we’re coming across to one another? Why is this the case?`

_Ranela Kaligithi, Clovis, California, USA_