---
title:  A Church With a Mission
date:  23/08/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 15:1–24

In Acts 15, Paul and Barnabas experienced a confrontation with Judaizers. These were Jewish members of the church who believed that all Old Testament laws pertaining to the Jews were necessary for Christians to practice in order to be saved.1 Instead of focusing on faith in the sacrifice of Christ for salvation, the Jewish Christians allowed side issues to take center stage.

After a heated discussion, the Judaizers rudely insisted that Paul and Barnabas travel to Jerusalem to confer with church leaders there. Instead of complaining about the Judaizers or talking of the negative events that had just taken place, Paul and Barnabas told the church in Jerusalem about the “many miracles and wonders God had worked through them among the Gentiles” (Acts 15:12, NKJV).

By focusing on what God had been doing, Paul and Barnabas overcame negativity and pointed church leaders back to the central mission of God’s church. The disagreement with the Judaizers wasn’t just a point of variance but a temptation to slowly stifle the missional character of the Christian message.

Henry Martyn, an English missionary to India and Persia in the eighteenth century, stated: “The spirit of Christ is the spirit of missions. The nearer we get to Him, the more intensely missionary we become.”2 Paul and Barnabas recognized that Christ instituted the church for mission.

The Jerusalem Council responded to what Paul and Barnabas had shared with a renewed understanding of their purpose as believers. With James as their representative, they assented that Christ intended everyone, “even all the Gentiles,” to seek the Lord and be saved (Acts 15:17, NKJV). Today, as in the days of the early church, God calls His believers to share the good news of salvation. Disagreements within the church should never distract us from pursuing Christ and fulfilling the gospel commission.

**React**

`1. How did Paul and Barnabas demonstrate the character of Jesus by their response to the Judaizers?`

`2. What attitude do I have toward those who disagree with me? How is my attitude the same as or different from that of Paul and Barnabas?`

_Esther Collier, Maitland, New South Wales, Australia_