---
title:  Keeping Our Eye on the Light
date:  24/08/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 15:28

**Conclude**

We have seen how such a seminally small question as “Is it needful to be circumcised to be a member of the Christian church?” led to massive debate and discord within the early church. Through the Bible and His prophets, God has shown us very simply what His law requires of us. It is when humans try to add or change the law to bring distinction to their religion or themselves that God’s law takes on human form and causes contention. In John Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress, Christian is told to “always keep his eye on the Light.” In this way he will avoid falling into the snares that beset the path. Likewise, while we may have questions or healthy debates on spiritual matters, we must always keep our eye fixed on Christ and let the things of this world fall away as we follow His directions for His church.

**Consider**

- Taking a hike and sitting by a stream or in a field quietly contemplating the natural beauty around you. Nature is God’s second book. It helps to calm the nerves and promote reflection on how everything God has made works the way He intends it to.

- Having a conversation with God—nothing formal—just start talking, telling Him about your day or a particular situation, and ask for His advice.

- Creating a work of art, whether it is a painting, poem, drawing, or photograph, and sharing it with someone who needs encouragement.

- Reading The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary pertaining to this week’s lesson. What insights does it bring out on conflict resolution that you could apply in your own life when faced with conflict?

- Evaluating the root cause of a particular conflict. What is the underlying reason this issue came up? Start there and see whether a resolution can be found between the parties

**Connect**

Ephesians 4:29–5:4; Philippians 2:4.

Ellen G. White, Pastoral Ministry, chapter 48, “Problem Solving and Conflict Resolution.”

_Seth Shaffer, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_