---
title:  Living in Sin and Tricked by Satan in the Past
date:   16/07/2023
---

`What does Paul say that Jesus did for us? Read Ephesians 2:1–10 for the answer.`

Paul already talked about the gift of mercy that God gives sinners (Ephesians 1:3–14, 15–23). Paul also told us, in short, the story about the Christians in Ephesus (Ephesians 1:13). In Ephesians 2:1–10, Paul now tells us more about their story and how God changed their lives after they accepted Jesus. Paul compares their old lives with their new lives. Paul talks about their past experiences as sinners (Ephesians 2:1–3). Then Paul talks about the spiritual blessings the Ephesians have in their new life (Ephesians 2:4–7) and why they are blessed (Ephesians 2:8–10). Jesus is both the One who made them and saves them. So, that is why God can show them mercy. Ephesians 2:5 has three parts: (1) we were sinners; (2) God gave us new life in Jesus; and (3) God saves us by His mercy.

In Ephesians 2:1, 2, Paul says that the Ephesians were the same as dead people before Jesus saved them. They lived as sinners (Ephesians 2:1). Satan controlled their lives (Ephesians 2:2). Of course, Paul is writing to living people. So, the word “dead” is really a word picture for the Ephesians when Satan controlled them (compare Ephesians 5:14). The danger to their lives from sin and Satan was very real. The Ephesians were separated from God in the past. Then God saved them and gave them life. God is the reason for all life (compare Colossians 2:13; Romans 5:17; Romans 6:23).

Paul talks about the two things that controlled the lives of his readers in the past. His readers were controlled by (1) the false ideas and (2) the bad behavior of the people around them (Ephesians 2:2). These two things caused Paul’s readers to fight against God in the past.

Paul says the Ephesians served Satan. Satan is “the ruler [leader] of the evil powers that are above the earth” (Ephesians 2:2, ERV). The words “above the earth” are a word picture for heaven. Bible writers saw heaven as the place where all spiritual powers or angels lived. These angels included evil angels or spirits (compare Ephesians 1:3; Ephesians 3:10; Ephesians 6:12). Satan is busy on earth, as well. He works in the lives of the people who disobey God (Ephesians 2:2).