---
title:  Controlled by Our Sins in the Past
date:   17/07/2023
---

“In the past all of us lived like [the same as] them. We lived trying to please our sinful [filled with sin] selves. We did all the things our bodies and minds wanted. We should have suffered God’s anger because we were sinful by nature [because we wanted to sin]. We were the same as all other people” (Ephesians 2:3, ICB).

`What does Paul mean when he says, “in the past all of us lived like them” (Ephesians 2:3, ICB)? Who is Paul talking about? Compare Ephesians 2:3 with Ephesians 5:6 to answer the question.`

Ephesians 2:3 helps us to understand that we are sinners. There is something wrong with us. When we become Christians, we change in every way. We don’t just stop doing one or two bad habits. We don’t just say no to whatever sin comes our way right now (Ephesians 2:1). We don’t just fight against one or two big sins. We fight with sin itself. As sinners, we want to fight against God and destroy ourselves. Our behavior is evil. Without God’s help, we will let Satan control us (Ephesians 2:2). That’s why Paul says, “We should have suffered God’s anger because we were sinful [filled with sin] by nature [because we wanted to sin]. We were the same as all other people” (Ephesians 2:3, ICB).

Do you see that Paul uses the word “were” two times in this verse, and not “are”? Paul uses “were” to show his readers that they will be in danger again if they reject God and go back to their old way of life. In Ephesians 4:17–5:21, Paul warns his readers against sin and evil behavior. Paul also gives his readers hope. Their old selves don’t need to control them anymore. With Jesus’ help, they can reject their old lives and evil behavior. They can live new, holy lives in Jesus (Ephesians 4:22–24).

`We are sinners. After we give ourselves to Jesus, we must continue in His strength to fight against sin. So, we know from our own experience that without help from Jesus we will continue to do evil. What does this idea teach us about why we must hold on tight to Jesus all the time?`