---
title:  In Heaven with Jesus
date:   18/07/2023
---

`In what way do Christians have a part in Jesus’ waking up from the dead, His going to heaven, and His sitting on His Father’s throne? Read Ephesians 2:6, 7 for the answer.`

Paul helps us understand the answer to our question above. Paul explains that God wakes Christians up from the dead with Jesus. Then Christians go with Jesus to heaven. Christians also sit down with Jesus on His throne. So, they share in Jesus’ glory.

If we want to understand better what Paul says, we must look back at Ephesians 1:19–23. In these verses, Paul tells us that Jesus won the fight against evil and every spiritual power when He died, woke up from the dead, went to heaven, and sat on the throne. These evil powers are the same powers that controlled the lives of Paul’s readers in the past. But now Jesus beats these evil powers because He woke up from the dead and went to heaven. Yes, these evil powers continue to put humans in danger. But now Jesus is more powerful than Satan and any of his evil angels. Everything has changed.

Jesus’ win against sin is very powerful and exciting news for all Christians. The Christians in Paul’s day didn’t just hear about Jesus’ win. They were a living part of it! That’s what Paul means when he says we wake up with Jesus, we go to heaven with Him, and we sit on the throne with Him. So, now we understand that we are more than readers. We do the same as Jesus. We do wake up, go to heaven, and sit with Jesus on His throne because He made these things possible for us. Jesus made it possible for us to live a new life. We can reject Satan and a life controlled by demons. We can have new spiritual lives filled with the mercy and strength that comes from Jesus (2 Timothy 1:7).

`Paul says, “God did not give us a spirit that makes us afraid. He gave us a spirit of power and love and self-control” (2 Timothy 1:7, ICB). How does this Bible promise help us today? How, also, does this promise help us to understand Paul’s words in Ephesians 2:6, 7?`