---
title:  Now Blessed Forever by Mercy
date:   19/07/2023
---

`Compare what Paul writes about God’s saving plan in Ephesians 1:3, 4 with what Paul says about this plan in Ephesians 2:7. What are the most important parts of this plan?`

We must understand that we always will need God’s mercy. There never will come a time when we don’t need it.

In Ephesians 2:6, 7, Paul tells us about the things God did for us. God sent Jesus to save us from sin. In God’s view, we are in partnership with Jesus. We are in a partnership with Jesus when He wakes up from the dead, when He goes to heaven, and when He sits on His throne. We do these things with Jesus. Our partnership with Jesus is part of God’s plan. God made His saving plan before time started (Ephesians 1:4). God’s plan started in the past and, also, happens in the future forever. God’s plan continues “for all time to come” (Ephesians 2:7, ERV). God’s plan for the future shows us the important rule of His mercy. Everything God did in the past and does now shows us His mercy. Everything God will do in the future, also, will show us His mercy. “For all future time” God wants to show us “the very great [wonderful] riches of his grace [mercy]” (Ephesians 2:7, ICB).

Paul thinks that God’s mercy is the same as a treasure (compare Ephesians 1:7; Ephesians 3:8). Christians can look to this “treasure” to help them in their time of need. God is very giving. His love for us and His unselfishness show us His mercy.

“Jesus came to live with us. Jesus showed God both to humans and to angels. That was Jesus’ special job. . . . Our little earth is the same as a lesson that teaches everyone in heaven and on all the other planets God made. Angels wish to learn about God’s saving plan and His saving love. This love is a mystery. The angels will study about this topic forever. The saved people, the holy angels, and the people on the other planets will study about Jesus. All of them will see that the glory that shines from Jesus’ face is His love. This love caused Jesus to die for us on the cross.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 19, 20, adapted.