---
title:  Now Saved by God
date:   20/07/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 2:1–10 again. Pay special attention to verses 8–10. What important ideas does Paul talk about at the end of these verses?`

In Ephesians 2:1–10, Paul’s message to his readers, and to us, is that God saves us because He loves us. God doesn’t save us because of our own good behavior. God saves us by His Son Jesus (Ephesians 2:4, 5). God saves us because of His mercy. God wakes us up from spiritual death. Because of God’s mercy, we are no longer slaves to sin. We are no longer “dead.” After God wakes us up from spiritual death, He shows us His mercy. In His eyes, His children go with Jesus to heaven and sit with Jesus on heaven’s throne (Ephesians 2:5, 6). This blessing is not just for a moment or instant. This blessing of being with Jesus continues for all time. God will show His mercy to His children in Jesus, now and forever (Ephesians 2:7).

At the end of Ephesians 2:1–10, Paul says the same thing again. That’s because Paul wants to make sure his readers understand. God saves us because of His mercy, not because of our good behavior. That’s why God’s mercy is a gift. We can’t earn it. (Read Ephesians 2:8–10.) We can’t save ourselves (Ephesians 2:8, 9). We can come to God only because Jesus made that possible. When we accept Jesus and give our lives to God, we show God’s mercy, not our own good behavior. We are God’s own works of art. God made us new because of Jesus Christ, His Son (Ephesians 2:10).

`Why is it so important for us to understand that we are saved by God and His mercy and not by our own good behavior?`