---
title:  Additional thought
date:   21/07/2023
---

In the Letter to the Ephesians, Paul often gives hint of a special story. This story is about God’s plan to save His people from sin. The story has six main parts:

1\. God chose to save His people from sin. God made a plan to save them. He made this plan before He made the earth and skies (Ephesians 1:4, 5, 11).

2\. Before God’s people accepted Jesus, they were lost in sin. Their past lives were evil (Ephesians 2:1–3, 11, 12; Ephesians 4:17–19, 22; Ephesians 5:8).

3\. God sent Jesus to save His people (Ephesians 1:7, 8; Ephesians 2:4–6, 13–19; Ephesians 4:1, 20, 21; Ephesians 5:2, 8, 23, 25, 26).

4\. God’s people accept the Good News that Jesus saves them from their sins (Ephesians 1:12, 13 and other verses). In the past, God’s people had no hope (Ephesians 2:12). Now they have hope in Jesus for a better life now and for everlasting life in the future (Ephesians 4:4; compare Ephesians 1:18).

5\. God’s children are not only His family; they are, also, His followers. As God’s followers, His people have lived in times filled with danger and risk, when evil powers tried to hurt them. God gives us His mercy and other gifts in our time of need (Ephesians 1:15–23; Ephesians 2:6; Ephesians 3:14–21; Ephesians 4:7–16; Ephesians 6:10–20).

6\. God gives His Holy Spirit to His people. This gift is a promise (Ephesians 1:13, 14) that God will give His people everything else He promised them (Ephesians 4:30). The Spirit is the same as a mark (Ephesians 4:30). In the future, God will reward His followers for their faith (Ephesians 2:7; Ephesians 6:8, 9). Because God’s followers believe in Jesus, they will be citizens in His new kingdom in the future (Ephesians 1:21; Ephesians 2:7, 19–22; Ephesians 4:13, 15; Ephesians 5:27).

**Discussion Questions**:

`The story that we see in Ephesians is about the Christians in Paul’s time. Their story is our story, too. Which parts of the story above give you the most hope right now?`

`Compare Paul’s explanation of the Good News in Ephesians 2:8–10 to his earlier explanation in Romans 1:16, 17. What is the same about both? How are the two different?`

`Our good behavior can’t save us. But why is our good behavior important? Read Ephesians 2:10 for the answer.`