---
title:  Spending Time With God’s Word, the Bible
date:   18/04/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Lamentations 3:22, 23; 2 Timothy 3:15–17; John 17:17; Psalm 119:11; 1 Corinthians 2:14.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “God’s message [the Bible] to us is alive and powerful. It is like [the same as] a sword that has two sharp edges. Even more than a sword, God’s message goes very deep into us. It cuts between our soul [the breath of life] and our spirit. It is like a sharp knife that can cut deep into our body between our bones. God’s message shows what we are really thinking. It shows what we really want” (Hebrews 4:12, EASY).

The Bible. How many copies do you own? At least one, maybe more, right? All through history, people made copies of the Bible in secret. Some governments outlawed the Bible. The Bible is the most printed book on earth in any language. Also, the Bible is one of the oldest books. People died to keep the Bible safe from men who wanted to destroy it.

How important is the Bible in your life? Do you read it? Or does it sit next to your bed or on a bookcase collecting dust? Are you too busy or tired to study it?

God’s Word, the Bible, is living and powerful. God wants you to let His Word talk to your heart. The Bible can encourage you, change you, lead you, and give you hope. The Bible isn’t just a collection of old stories. The Bible is a beautiful record about God’s love. The Bible tells us that God wants to be close to our hearts. Do you want to grow in your relationship with God? Then the best thing to do is spend time every day praying, reading the Bible, and following its teachings.