---
title:  What The Bible Says About Itself
date:   22/04/2026
---

What if you went to the Bible for advice or help with big decisions, relationship problems, or other troubles? What do you think would change in your home or at church?

Bible writers knew that the words of the Bible were very important. No other book can change your life the way the Bible can. We want God’s words to do more than just fill the pages in our Bibles. We want God’s words to fill our hearts. So, the question we must ask is, “How can we keep God’s words in our hearts?”

`Read David’s advice in Psalm 119:11. What is David’s advice? How can you follow it? (Also read Hebrews 4:12.)`

One of the promises the Bible makes about itself is in Hebrews 4:12. The Bible is the same as a sword. A sword with two sharp edges is powerful. So the Bible is very powerful and helps us become better people. The Bible also tells us that its words are alive. Maybe you wondered how this teaching is possible. Jesus said, “ ‘The words I speak to you are spirit and life’ ” (John 6:63, NLV). Is your heart broken? Is your life falling apart? Jesus can heal you. He can change your life for the better and give you hope. The Old Testament says that God’s words do what He wants them to do. God’s words make things happen (read Isaiah 55:11). David thought about how God’s words changed his life. Then David wrote, “When I have trouble, your promise gives me peace in my mind. It makes my life strong again” (Psalm 119:50, EASY).

Maybe you felt very hungry at some time in your life. Doesn’t food taste wonderful after you’ve been hungry? In the same way, the Bible is ‘food’ for our spirits.

Does your spirit feel empty or hungry? Open the Living Word of God, the Bible. Read Jeremiah 15:16; 1 Peter 2:2; and Matthew 4:4. God’s words ‘taste’ wonderful to our minds and hearts. When we read His words, they will fill us and keep us alive, just as God promised.

The words in our Bible come from God Himself. God sent them to all of us. So, we must read them and pray over them. They will change our lives and give us hope.

`What problems in life can the Bible help you with right now? Why must you not let your selfish feelings stop you from doing what the Bible tells you to do?`