---
title:  Coming To God With Open Minds And Hearts
date:   23/04/2026
---

`Do you want to learn from the Bible (Job 22:22)? You must first have an open mind and heart when you talk with God. How does 1 Corinthians 2:14 help explain this idea?`

God wants us to be wise. He wants us to have spiritual understanding. So, we must open our minds and hearts when we come to Him. Then He can teach us what the Bible says. If we aren’t willing to learn, we won’t have a good experience reading the Bible. Or, if we think the Bible is silly, we won’t look for truth in its pages.

`We must believe that the Bible has something wonderful to teach us. We must come to the Bible willing to learn. Then we can grow in our relationship with God. How does Paul explain this idea in 1 Thessalonians 2:13?`

God’s Word, the Bible, works in us when we believe. When you open your Bible, you must believe that God wants to say something to you with the words on the pages. Then God really will talk to you and work in your life. But so much depends on your faith and what you expect to get from your experience. The good news is that if your faith is small, God can help it grow (Mark 9:24). God can help your faith even if it’s tiny like a mustard seed (Luke 17:6).

The Bible tells us the truth about our lives and our relationship with God. The Bible tells us how to make our relationship with God grow strong. So, empty your heart of all pride. Let the Holy Spirit fill your heart. When you do, you will always come away changed as you read the Bible. You may not see the changes in your life each day. That’s because these changes and growth are often small. But if we refuse to give up sin, Bible study can’t help us very much. When we study the Bible, the Holy Spirit moves on our hearts to come closer to Jesus. Do we really want to come closer to Him? If yes, we will become “truly wise. You understand that God saves you because you believe in Christ Jesus” (2 Timothy 3:15, EASY).

`What is in my mind and heart as I open my Bible? Am I studying the Bible to prove my own ideas? Or am I coming ready to learn what God wants to tell me today? Why is this answer so important?`