---
title:  Bragging About the Cross of Jesus
date:   23/09/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 6:11–18; Romans 6:1–6; Romans 12:1–8; 2 Corinthians 4:10; 2 Corinthians 5:17; 2 Corinthians 11:23–29. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “I do not want to be proud of anything except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of the cross, the ways of this world are dead to me, and I am dead to them” (Galatians 6:14, NLV). 

Paul writes with all the strong feeling of an Old Testament prophet. A prophet is a special messenger sent by God to His people. Such prophets included Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Hosea. These men begged God’s people to turn away from their sins and wrong thinking. Paul in his own day gives the same message to God’s people. 

True, the situation Jeremiah was dealing with may have been very different from the one in Paul’s time. But the words of Jeremiah just as easily could have been written to the Galatians: “The LORD says, ‘Do not let wise people brag about how wise they are. Do not let strong people boast about how strong they are. Do not let rich people brag about how rich they are. But here is what the one who brags should boast about. They should brag that they have the understanding to know me. . . . No matter what I do on earth, I am always kind, fair and right’ ” (Jeremiah 9:23, 24, NIrV). 

Before the Cross of Jesus, all our greatness is nothing. And the Cross is at the heart of Paul’s letter to the flock in Galatia who has wandered away from the truth.