---
title:  Paul’s own hand
date:   24/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:11–18_

`Read Paul’s words at the end of his letter in Galatians 6:11–18. Now read his final words at the end of some of his other letters. How is the ending of Galatians the same as, or different from, Paul’s other letters? (For example, read Paul’s closing words at the end of Romans; 1 and 2 Corinthians; Ephesians; Philippians; Colossians; and 1 and 2 Thessalonians.)` 

Paul’s final words are not always the same at the end of each of his letters. But sometimes they are. For example: 

(1) Paul greets certain individuals by name. (2) He makes a final appeal or asks his readers to do something. (3) Paul signs his name. And (4) he closes with a special blessing. These four parts appear at the end of most of Paul’s letters. But in Galatians there are two important differences. 

First, Galatians contains no personal greetings. Why? We learned earlier this quarter that words of thanksgiving also are missing from this letter. The fact that both parts are missing may point to Paul’s difficult relationship with the Galatians. Paul is polite, but not too friendly. 

Second, we must remember that Paul spoke his letters aloud to a scribe (Romans 16:22). The scribe would write down Paul’s words. Then Paul would take the pen himself and write a few short words with his own hand to end the letter (1 Corinthians 16:21). But in his letter to the Galatians, something different happens. Paul takes the pen from the scribe.Then he ends up writing much more than he planned. Why? Because he is so concerned with what is happening in Galatia. He cannot put the pen down until he begs the Galatians once more to turn from their foolish ways. 

In Galatians 6:11, Paul says he wrote with large letters. Some think the fact that Paul wrote in large letters means his hands were so crippled from beatings. Or they think his hands had become so twisted from tent making that he could not form his letters carefully. Others think his words are proof of his poor eyesight. Both ideas may be true. But it seems that what Paul really meant by writing in big letters was to let his readers know how serious he was about his point. We might do the same thing in an e-mail when we want to make a point. For example, we might underline our point or put it in italics or write it in CAPITAL LETTERS. Whatever the reason, Paul wanted his readers to pay careful attention to his warning, his advice, and his scolding.