---
title:  Bragging about our own strength
date:   25/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:12, 13_ 

`What is Paul saying in Galatians 6:12, 13?` 

Paul already has given us a hint about the reasons behind his enemies’ attacks in Galatians 1:7. But his words in Galatians 6:12, 13 are his first words about his enemies themselves. He says they “are worried about how things look on the outside” (NIrV). The wording “how things look” in Greek means to put on “a good face.” In fact, the word for “face” in Greek is the same as the word for an actor’s mask. This word was used as a word picture for the part played by an actor. So, Paul is saying his attackers were the same as actors who wanted an audience’s praise. His attackers wanted to look good before the Jews in Galatia. 

Paul makes an important point about one of their reasons for wanting to look good. They wanted to avoid suffering for their faith. We often think of suffering as something that causes us terrible pain or harm. But being attacked for one’s faith can involve “smaller” forms of suffering, too. For example, society can shut a person out for his or her faith and make life very hard for him or her. Paul and others in Judea once did far worse than that to Christians. But lesser forms of suffering for one’s faith also can cause real pain. 

Jewish religious leaders still had a lot of power in people’s lives. They had Rome’s approval. So, many Jewish believers wanted to get along well with them. And the troublemakers in Galatia found a point on which both they and the Jewish leaders could agree. And that was requiring non-Jewish believers to be circumcised.To be circumcised means that the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. Teaching that non-Jews should be circumcised would allow Paul’s attackers to continue to have good relations with the synagogue. 

We cannot be sure which of these situations Paul meant in his letter. But we can be sure about his meaning. It is clear: “In fact, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be treated badly” (2 Timothy 3:12, NIrV). 

`Think about why Paul’s attackers taught their lies. Their reasons seem good. But what should this fact tell us about how even the best reasons can lead us away from God if we are not careful? When have you ended up doing wrong things for the right reasons?`