---
title:  Bragging only about the Cross of Jesus
date:   26/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:14_ 

First, Paul shows the real reasons behind why his attackers want non-Jewish believers to be circumcised. Then he gives his gospel message to the Galatians one last time. For Paul, the gospel centers on two important teachings: (1) the Cross (Galatians 6:14) and (2) a new life in Christ (Galatians 6:15). Another name for this second teaching is justification. Today, we will look at the first of the two teachings. 

It is hard for us to realize how shocking Paul’s words about the Cross were at the time (Galatians 6:14). Today, the Cross of Christ is a beloved symbol among Christians. But in Paul’s day, a cross was not something to brag about. Instead, it was hated and despised. So the idea of a Savior dying on a cross was terrible for a Jew. And no Roman was to be put to death on a cross as a punishment. 

The disgust people felt for crosses in Paul’s day clearly is seen in the earliest drawing on record of a crucifixion. Crucifixion is the act of putting someone to death on a cross. This drawing dates back to the early 2nd century A.D. It shows the crucifixion of a man with the head of a donkey. The man’s hands are raised in worship. Below the cross, there are these words: “Alexander worships his god.” The point is clear: the Cross of Christ is thought to be foolish. Paul’s world is ruled by such negative thinking. And in this world, Paul boldly says that he can brag about nothing except the Cross of Christ! 

`Read Galatians 6:14; Romans 6:1–6; Romans 12:1–8; and Philippians 3:8. What difference did the Cross of Christ make in Paul’s relationship to the world?` 

The Cross of Christ changes everything for the believer. It asks us to change how we view ourselves and our relationship to the world. The world stands against God (1 John 2:16). But we have died with Christ. And so, the world no longer has the power to make us slaves. The old lives we once lived for the world are over.Paul’s word picture shows this truth.The believer dies to the world. 

`What has the Cross done to affect your relationship to the world? What difference has it made in your life? The Lord died for you. So, how differently do you live now than before giving yourself to Him?`