---
title:  The new Creation
date:   27/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:15_ 

First, Paul shows that the Cross of Christ is the center of the Christian life. Next, Paul talks about the second important teaching of his gospel message: justification by faith. As we learned yesterday, justification is another way of saying being made right with God and living a new life in Christ. 

All quarter we have studied how Paul has shown the gospel and circumcision to be against each other. Paul has made several strong statements against circumcision (Galatians 5:2–4). But he does not want the Galatians to think not being circumcised is more pleasing to God than being circumcised. That is not his point. True religion is rooted less in what we do and more in the thoughts and feelings of the heart. Jesus said that a person can look wonderful on the outside. But spiritually he or she can be rotten on the inside (Matthew 23:27). 

`Read Galatians 6:15 and 2 Corinthians 5:17. What does it mean to be a new creation? How have you experienced what this truth means?` 

Ktisis is the Greek word translated as “creation.” It can mean: (1) only one “created” thing or creature (Hebrews 4:13). Or (2) it can mean all the “created” world (Romans 8:22). Either example points to the action of a Creator. And that is Paul’s point. Becoming a “new creature” does not happen by any human effort. Instead, it is a divine act. God takes a person who is spiritually dead, and He breathes life into him or her. This act is one more word picture Paul uses to explain justification by faith. 

Paul talks more about this new-creation experience in 2 Corinthians 5:17. In this verse, Paul explains that becoming a new creation means far more than having our names written in the books of heaven. Instead, it brings about change in our lives today. Timothy George writes about this change: “It involves the renewing power of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit leads us away from sin. He strengthens our faith. This change also involves dying daily to self and living again in Christ. We always will be growing in holiness. And God’s holiness in us will change us to become like Him.” —Adapted, Galatians, page 438. 

But becoming a new creature does not take away our sin. Instead, our change is proof we are forgiven.