---
title:  Paul’s final thoughts
date:   28/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:16_ 

`Paul gives his blessing to “all who follow this rule” (Galatians 6:16, NIrV). Given what you already know about the situation, what “rule” do you suppose Paul means?` 

The word translated as “rule” in Galatians 6:16 points to a straight rod or bar. Stone builders and carpenters used this bar for measuring. The word “rule” soon came to be used as a word picture for the rules or standards a person used to measure the value of something. For example, the 27 books of the New Testament are viewed as a standard for how Christians should behave and for what they should believe. Suppose a teaching does not “measure up” to what is found in these books. Then it is not to be accepted. 

`Read Galatians 6:17; 2 Corinthians 4:10; and 2 Corinthians 11:23–29. What are the “marks that show I belong to Jesus” (Galatians 6:17, NIrV) that Paul carries on his body?What does he mean when he writes,“From now on, let no one cause trouble for me” because of these marks? How might Galatians 6:14 help answer these questions?` 

The word “mark” comes from the Greek word stigmata. Paul may have meant the branding of slaves with the special mark of their master. The mark showed to whom the slave belonged. Or, Paul may have been thinking about people who branded themselves to show their loyalty to a god. But without a doubt, the wording the “marks that show I belong to Jesus” points to the fact that Paul means “the scars left upon his body from suffering. . . . Paul’s attackers want non-Jewish believers to be circumcised as a sign they are loyal to Jewish law. But Paul has marks that show whose loyal slave he is. And for Paul, there is no other loyalty than to Christ. Paul received scars from his enemies for serving Jesus, his Master. These scars speak more powerfully of his loyalty to Christ than any words.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 989. 

`What “marks” of the body or spirit have you received because of your faith in Jesus? Or, to ask the question another way, What has your faith cost you?`