---
title: 'Lost in His Arms'
date: 04/03/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Mark
12:41–44**

**Lost
in His Arms**

Even though Pastor Pavel Goia’s father was a prosperous construction contractor during the Romanian Communist era, the family never had a fancy car, expensive furniture, or a big house. “If things were better,” he would say to his wife, “we would promote God’s work even further. Those are the treasures we have, because we don’t take anything except souls to heaven. So let’s invest in souls.”

One time, when he was building a church, he came home with $25,000 after putting on a new roof for a school—a huge amount in Romania at that time. So his wife asked him, “How much should we give? Ten percent?” Pavel’s dad said, “No, no, no! Give it all.” Then his wife said, “Let’s keep $2,000 for the house, for emergencies.” He agreed and said, “OK, keep ten percent and give ninety percent.”

Pavel remembers that sometimes his father would give all, “depending on the need of the church, not our need.” He would say, “Who gave us the money? Who gave us health? He is going to give us more again. Give it all. Give it to the church.” And that didn’t happen just one time, said Pavel. “It was usually the case. We got used to constantly hearing this again and again until it was anchored into our system.”

This week we will focus on some aspects of giving related to the account of the poor widow, who became an extreme giver by giving all. As with what happened with Pastor Goia’s father, extreme giving is a joyful adventure of faith for those who have lost themselves in the Savior’s arms, who have nothing else to fear, whose eyes and hearts are already placed beyond the Jordan, who are almost stepping in that “land that is fairer than day.” They are among those who “will dwell on high;” their “place of defense will be fortress of rocks; bread will be given” to them, and their “water will be sure” (Isa. 33:16).

(Adapted from 2020 Tithes and Offerings readings: https://stewardship.adventist.org/duplicate-of-prem%E2%80%99s-sacrifice.pdf.)

#### inScribe

Write out Mark 12:41–44 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `