---
title: 'The Right Place'
date: 05/03/2023
---

#### inGest

It was after His triumphal entry that Jesus cleansed the temple, wiping out the sordid commerce that had been going on with God’s holy offerings. What should have been considered His house of prayer was transformed into a “den of thieves” (Mark 11:1–17)! The very ones supposed to protect God’s honor were misrepresenting His character by taking advantage of their positions to amass wealth.

Chief priests, scribes, and elders, authorities of the people, confronted Jesus, questioning His authority. Jesus then told them the parable of the vineyard. According to the story, the owner of a vineyard rented it to vinedressers. Instead of paying the owner his due, they took possession of the vineyard and killed his son. Feeling accused by the parable, “they sought to lay hands on Him, . . . for they knew He had spoken the parable against them” (Mark 12:12).

After being questioned by the Sadducees and the scribes, Jesus warned the people about the hypocrisy of their leaders. They loved to parade their religiosity, while being full of greed and sin inside, taking advantage for selfish purposes of even the people’s offerings.

It is in that context that Jesus sits “opposite the treasury” and watches how people would put money on it (v. 41). He was not there by chance. His purpose was to teach some precious lessons to the future leaders of His church and to us.

The first one is that He cares and evaluates our giving practices. Abel’s sacrifice, for instance, was weighed and considered “more excellent” than Cain’s (Heb. 11:4). He is still there every time we bring our offerings to Him (in person or electronically). He always weighs “how” we worship Him through them.

This “how” refers to our state of being. Are our hearts cleansed and our sins confessed? Are we able to discern His sacrifice, His offering for us? Have we done what was possible to repair any damaged relationship with fellow human beings? Otherwise, even though accepted by the church (which cannot read hearts), offerings would not be accepted by Him.

Another point is that He was there not to see “how much,” but “how” people would put money into the treasury. “How much” is never His concern, because His focus is not on the money, but on the worshipper’s allegiance and surrender. What made the Creator of the universe stop and call His disciples for a lesson was the offering of an unnamed widow. She trusted God, giving Him all she had—two of the smallest coins in use at that time.

Some could have told her not to bring the offering to the temple (God’s storehouse), feeding the corrupted priests. Jesus Himself could have suggested a different destination for tithes and offerings, maybe diverting them to His ministry—which was the most important ministry that ever existed in this world. After all, would not the human recipients of those offerings kill Him a short time later? But Jesus, instead, commended her faithfulness in doing what was right.

By praising her act, Jesus implicitly confirms that His storehouse is still the place where He expects His children to bring tithes and offerings. And He has not changed!

` `