---
title: 'How Does Jesus Judge What We Give?'
date: 06/03/2023
---

#### inTerpret

How could Jesus say that one who gave the lesser amount gave more than the ones who gave far larger amounts (Mark 12:41–43)? Had the Creator of the universe missed His math classes? No. Jesus is the originator of all sciences, the possessor of all knowledge! His statement about the poor widow’s giving was accurate not only from a spiritual standpoint but also from a mathematical perspective.

It is clear through the poor widow’s account that Jesus’ estimation on what we give isn’t based on the amount. His opinion about her offering can only make sense under a proportional approach. He explained to His disciples that she gave more than all the others because she gave “all” she had (“all” may also be expressed as a proportion, or percentage—hundred hundredths, or one hundred percent).

Moses alluded to the proportional system for offerings when he said that one should give “as he is able,” and “according to the blessing of the Lord” (Deut. 16:17). This implies that those who are more financially blessed are more able, and should give more. Those who are less financially blessed are less able, and therefore are expected to give less; and those who are not financially blessed are not expected to give (see 2 Cor. 8:11, 12).

Paul also promotes a proportional concept about giving when he says that “each one of you” should store something up for the collection “as he may prosper” (1 Cor. 16:2)—those who prosper more giving more, and those who prosper less giving less.

Through this plan, God reveals His wisdom and equity, giving to the poor and rich the same opportunities. An offering of five percent of the income of a rich person means to Jesus exactly the same as five percent of what was earned by the poorest person, because God is not a respecter of individuals.

If a poor person gives six percent of their income as offering, for instance, Jesus considers it as more than the five percent of the richest, even though the amount given by the rich could be far bigger. That is why George Müller once said that “God judges what we give by what we keep.”

Those who understand and accept Jesus’ fair proportional system no longer want to rely on their perceptions or impulses (Jer. 17:9) while deciding when and how much to give. They will no longer give based on their emotions, feelings, external motivations, appeals, sympathy for missionaries, for projects or institutions.

Instead, they want their giving to be motivated by principles, to be as regular as they receive financial blessings from above. Therefore, they will partner with Jesus by prayerfully vowing a percentage of their income to be regularly returned to Him as an offering, beside the tithe.

For educational purposes, this kind of proportional giving has been named as “promise,” and those who give under that system are called “promisors” because they understand that they should vow or promise, according to the purpose of their hearts (2 Cor. 9:7), a percentage of their income as a regular offering to the Lord.

Because their giving always represents a proportion of what God gave them before, they are regularly reminded that He is always the first to give. As the first, He does not expect from them anything from what He had not provided for them before (2 Cor. 8:11, 12). Their giving then becomes just a grateful response to His giving, never an attempt to earn merit, which would be offensive to God.

` `