---
title: 'Seeking a Homeland'
date: 08/03/2023
---

#### inVite

Jesus’ praise of the poor widow’s offering stands as an open rebuke to those who are reluctant to give because they suspect that something is not right within the work. When rumors resonate with their unwillingness to give, some mistake their unbelief by wisdom, and become even proud of it. When they are influenced by a worldly mindset that surrounds them, God’s Word becomes secondary, cynicism abounds, truth is distorted, conspiracy theories proliferate, and each believes to have the true version of facts.

In the case of the poor widow, however, there were true reasons for distrust. Even so, she decided to do what was right in God’s sight and was commended by Jesus. She firmly believed that God cannot be mocked, that He not only watches how we give, but also how funds are managed after we give. He says, “I, the Lord, search the heart, I test the mind, even to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings” (Jer. 17:10). Nothing escapes from His never-sleeping eyes.

On the other hand, institutions that manage God’s funds should not only do what is right, but must also look as though they are right. The Adventist Church, for instance, adopted strict policies to ensure that offering funds would be appropriately used. One of them was turning the church into a legal entity, which is not owned by any individual or group of individuals that could take profit on it.

Moreover, all important financial decisions and policies are made by committees, not individuals. Leaders and workers are paid under a fixed salary scale, and if more tithes and offering funds become available, instead of workers becoming wealthier the mission will be completed earlier.

Another important aspect is that there is a vigilant and robust system of audit, in which all financial and administrative processes are regularly investigated, and reports are published.

Givers may also help to improve transparency and accountability of the church by simple measures, such as expecting and requiring receipts after any contribution. As a reminder, receipts are possible only if every time they give, they identify themselves by name in the digital or real envelopes. To expect and require receipts is not only the giver’s right—it is a duty.

Jesus is calling His end-time children to trust Him, the owner of the church, and to trust each other, moving forward as an organized army. He is able to fix things that some may believe are impossible to be straightened.

Difficult times are ahead. Jesus invites the church’s last-day generation to emulate the poor widow’s example, following Him, the extreme giver, in paths of self-denial and sacrifice. He left all behind, came down, and died for them. While there is time, He invites them to partner with Him through regular and systematic giving in His holy business of saving souls. Then, before the very end, He will invite them to move a step further—now giving all—because their redemption is very near. Anyway, like Noah, they will no longer need what they got rid of.

God’s children know that it is only by giving regularly and systematically now that their hearts would gradually be disconnected from this world and prepared for translation. They have walked with Jesus here, learned to trust Him, and now their eyes are placed in another country. “For those . . . declare plainly that they seek a homeland. . . . They desire a better, that is, a heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them” (Heb. 11:14–16).

` `