---
title: The Principle of Proportions
date: 09/03/2023
---

#### inSight

Some have been dissatisfied, and have said, “I will not longer pay my tithe; for I have no confidence in the way things are managed at the heart of the work.” But will you rob God because you think the management of the work is not right? Make your complaint, plainly and openly, in the right spirit, to the proper ones. Send in your petitions for things to be adjusted and set in order; but do not withdraw from the work of God, and prove unfaithful, because others are not doing right. (Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1940], 93, 94.)

Christ unsparingly condemned abuses, but He was careful not to lessen obligation. He rebuked the selfishness that extorted and misapplied the widow’s gifts. At the same time He commended the widow who brought her offering for God’s treasury. Man’s abuse of the gift could not turn God’s blessing from the giver. (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1898, 1940], 614.)

Many would have advised her to keep her pittance for her own use; given into the hands of the well-fed priests, it would be lost sight of among the many costly gifts brought to the treasury. But Jesus understood her motive. She believed the service of the temple to be of God’s appointment, and she was anxious to do her utmost to sustain it. . . . Her heart went with her gift; its value was estimated, not by the worth of the coin, but by the love to God and the interest in His work that had prompted the deed. (E. G. White, The Desire of Ages, 615.)

Thus he [Jesus] taught that the value of the gift is estimated not by the amount, but by the proportion that is given and the motive that actuates the giver. (Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1911], 342.)

In the balances of the sanctuary, the gifts of the poor, . . . are not estimated according to the amount given, but according to the love which prompts the sacrifice. . . . God’s providence has arranged the entire plan of systematic benevolence for the benefit of man. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 180.)

In the Bible system of tithes and offerings the amounts paid by different persons will of course vary greatly, since they are proportioned to the income. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 73.)

The principle laid down by Christ is that our offerings to God should be in proportion to the light and privileges enjoyed. (E. G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1890], 528.)

The followers of Christ should not wait for thrilling missionary appeals to arouse them to action. If spiritually awake, they would hear in the income of every week, whether much or little, the voice of God and of conscience with authority demanding the tithes and offerings due the Lord. (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4 [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1876], 474.)

They should not allow the amount given to God to be disproportionately small when compared with that appropriated to their own use. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 36.)

How much more eager will every faithful steward be to enlarge the proportion of gifts to be placed in the Lord’s treasure house, than to decrease his offering on jot or tittle. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 200.)

He has placed means in the hands of men, that His divine gifts may flow through human channels in doing the work appointed us in saving our fellow men. . . . He thus makes man the medium through which to distribute His blessings on earth. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 15.)

If men will become channels through which heaven’s blessing can flow to others, the Lord will keep the channel supplied. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 36.)

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study, what do you need to do?`

`What do others around you need to do?`