---
title: inQuire
date: 10/03/2023
---

#### inQuire

`Is “helping to spread the gospel” the best motivation for giving offerings, or there should be an even higher motivation than that?`

`If John 3:16 says that the Lord loves the world (implicitly, all its inhabitants), how do you explain His special relationship toward the cheerful giver, implied in 2 Corinthians 9:7? Is God a respecter of persons?`

`How would you answer if someone would suggest that you not bring your tithes and regular offerings to the storehouse because they believe that the resources are not used appropriately?`

`One of the unbalanced emphases of prosperity theology is that “the more you give, the more you receive.” Even though the idea in itself is not wrong, it should not constitute our main motivation for giving. How then is God’s proportional system of giving promoting a more balanced motivation for giving? What should our primarily motivation be?`

`Why do you believe it could be risky for a business or unfair for the shareholders if they would be paid as a fixed amount instead of a proportion of the profit? What does it indicate about what are God’s expectations after “investing” His goods in our life? On what basis are we expected to return His share?`

`What risk could someone incur who decides to partner with the Creator of the universe by investing a proportion of the income in the work of saving souls?`

`If, according to Ellen G. White, offerings are qualified as regular and systematic, what should determine the regularity, and what should be the system by which they should be given?`

`According to God’s system of giving, we are supposed to give a proportion of the income as offering. Why, then, is there no information in the Bible about what is the ideal percentage to be given? What does it indicate? (See Prov. 4:18.)`

`Have you ever purposed (2 Cor. 9:7) a percentage of your income to be gratefully returned as offering? What percentage of any income or increase is the Holy Spirit suggesting you now regularly return to Him as offerings? ____ percent`

`Which one requires from the worshiper a higher commitment and more surrender: returning tithe or regular/systematic offerings? Why?`