---
title:  Overcoming Sin
date:   11/11/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “Sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace” (Rom. 6:14).

**Introduction**: Rom. 5:20; Eph. 2:8

**Grace—God’s Greatest Gift**

I remember when my dad told me how my grandfather would often wait until the last minute to turn off the television when Sabbath started. When he did turn off the television, it was with something like a sigh of disappointment that he couldn’t continue to watch his shows but instead had to go through Sabbath like it was the mandatory thing to do. When Dad told me, it reminded me of how sometimes we only follow what God says because we feel like we have to. It also reminded me of the Pharisees in the Bible and how they had an obsession with making themselves look perfect in the eyes of other people instead of doing what was right in faithfulness to God. It overcame them to the point that they even accused Jesus of not keeping the Sabbath because He simply helped someone out.

They missed the point!

Many people turn away from God because of all the strict guidelines they feel they must follow, rather than accept the invitation to live by grace. Too easily, we become so used to following our daily “must dos” that we forget the real reason why we do them. Anyone can follow a guideline and say they are saved because they followed the rules. Anyone can sin and ask for forgiveness as many times as they want. It’s important to remember that the reason we ask for forgiveness is to gain a closer friendship with God—not because we “have to” in order to do the right thing but because God’s grace draws us to Him.

When we ask for forgiveness because we “have to,” we easily find ourselves falling off the track again and forgetting our promises. It’s important to have grace in all that we do for God and not turn our love for Him into a “mandatory” thing. Paul talks about sanctification—a process in which we overcome sin to reflect the ways of Christ. When Jesus healed people, He never did it to let everyone know how righteous He was, but He did it out of love and grace. We need to be more willing to worship God. We should go to church because we want to, not because we have to. We should follow the Ten Commandments, not because we have to but because we want to. We shouldn’t live our lives like the Pharisees, who would go around following the commandments to make themselves look superior to everyone else; let’s live more like Jesus, who worked out of grace.

As we explore what Paul had to say about God’s grace and how it is vital for our salvation, let’s remember that, without God’s grace, it would be impossible for us on our own merits to fulfill the requirements of the law. It begins with grace.

_Chloe Akon, Newborough, Victoria, Australia_