---
title:  Jesus, Perfection, and Me
date:   12/11/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 6:1–21; Gal. 5:17; 1 John 2:1

**Jesus Overcame Sin** (Rom. 6:10)

When Jesus died on the cross, He overcame sin. It was through sin that death entered into our world. Because Jesus overcame sin, Christians now recognize that His resurrection holds life-changing power. “When he died, he died once to break the power of sin. But now that he lives, he lives for the glory of God” (Rom. 6:10, NLT). The impact of Jesus’ death and resurrection means that we are given the gift of eternal life. Because Jesus broke the power of sin, we in turn have been empowered. Sin can no longer have the control over us that it did before. The end result is not the same.

If we follow Jesus, not only do we try to reflect Jesus’ character but we gain His reward and follow Jesus’ footsteps into eternal life. Justification by faith is the belief that it is only through our faith and desire to follow Jesus that we are saved; nothing we do could earn our way into heaven. That is how God’s grace works! However, that does not mean that we can live our lives ignoring the reality of sin. While our actions cannot buy eternal life, there is a connection between our faith and the way we live. “Since we have died to sin, how can we continue to live in it?” (Rom. 6:2, NLT).

**Our Struggle With Sin** (Gal. 5:17)

Even though Jesus overcame the power of sin, we are still caught in a struggle between good and evil. Sin might have lost its eternal power, but we live in a sinful world. Each one of us faces an internal struggle where our sinful nature is at war with our good intentions: “The sinful nature wants to do evil, which is just the opposite of what the Spirit wants” (Gal. 5:17, NLT). Deciding to follow Jesus does not mean we become immune to sin.

We are given or claim the title of “Christian” as a way to declare we are followers of Jesus Christ, but the term Christian would work better if it was understood as a verb: being a Christian is a continual action. We will always face opposition and temptation. Yes, Jesus overcame sin, but it still exists. We say Jesus overcame sin using the past tense, but the reality is that Jesus is overcoming sin in our present and into our future as well. “The Spirit gives us desires that are the opposite of what the sinful nature desires” (Gal. 5:17, NLT).

“The experience of salvation involves repentance, confession, forgiveness, justification and sanctification.”<sup>1</sup> We enter into a relationship with God, and as in any other relationship, the longer we know Him and the more time we spend together, the deeper the relationship grows and the greater our understanding. This experience should not be viewed as a timeline or something that can only happen once. Our relationship with God is not static; it moves and grows.

**Being Sanctified** (1 John 2:1)

Being sanctified means to be declared holy and free from sin. Part of our salvation experience means we are sanctified. Does this mean we are declared perfect? Yes! Does it mean we are perfect? No! “Yes, Adam’s one sin brings condemnation for everyone, but Christ’s one act of righteousness brings a right relationship with God and new life for everyone” (Rom. 5:18, NLT). It is not because of our own perfection but Jesus’ perfection that we can be declared righteous in the eyes of God and be justified.

God looks at us and declares we are righteous and holy because Jesus has taken our place. It is Jesus’ perfection that is shining out of us. We cannot overcome sin by ourselves. Our personal victory over sin is actually Jesus’ victory. As our relationship with God grows and deepens, we become more aware of our weaknesses and sins. As Paul explained, “You are now ashamed of the things you used to do” (Rom. 6:21, NLT). As we become more aware of our sin and our desire to be more like Jesus grows, we repent and confess. God offers forgiveness, and in turn we receive justification and sanctification. The Holy Spirit guides us, and we desire good.

However, that internal struggle between good and evil will not suddenly disappear because of our connection to Jesus. Being justified and sanctified does not mean we will never again face the temptation of sin. What it does mean is that Jesus is there for us, ready to help us whenever we need Him. The Holy Spirit becomes present in our hearts, helping us overcome our sinful nature and helping our good intentions become a reality. “But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate who pleads our case before the Father. He is Jesus Christ, the one who is truly righteous” (1 John 2:1, NLT).

**React**

`Does overcoming sin feel like a true possibility for your life, or is it only an ideal?`

`Can you see evidence of victory over sin in your own life?`

`If you believe in justification by faith alone, does that impact your understanding of being sanctified? In what way?`

<sup>1. Seventh-day Adventists Believe, 2nd ed. (Boise, ID: Pacific Press®, 2005), p. 134.<sup>

_Jody Eddy, Alexandra, Victoria, Australia_