---
title:  “And Grace Will Lead Us Home”
date:   13/11/2017
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 6:14

“It is the grace that Christ implants in the soul which creates in man enmity against Satan. Without this converting grace and renewing power, man would continue the captive of Satan, a servant ever ready to do his bidding. . . . The power which Christ imparts enables man to resist the tyrant and usurper. Whoever is seen to abhor sin instead of loving it, whoever resists and conquers those passions that have held sway within, displays the operation of a principle wholly from above.”<sup>1</sup>

“When sin struggles for the mastery in the human heart, when guilt seems to oppress the soul and burden the conscience, when unbelief clouds the mind, who lets in the beams of light? Whose grace is sufficient to subdue sin, and who gives the precious forgiveness and pardons all our sins, expelling the darkness, and making us hopeful and joyful in God?—Jesus, the sinpardoning Saviour.”<sup>2</sup>

“Christ’s humanity was united with divinity; He was fitted for the conflict by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And He came to make us partakers of the divine nature. So long as we are united to Him by faith, sin has no more dominion over us. God reaches for the hand of faith in us to direct it to lay fast hold upon the divinity of Christ, that we may attain to perfection of character.”<sup>3</sup> “Such transformation of character . . . is ever the result of communion with Christ. There may be marked defects in the character of an individual, yet when he becomes a true disciple of Christ, the power of divine grace transforms and sanctifies him. Beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, he is changed from glory to glory, until he is like Him whom he adores.”<sup>4</sup>

**React**

`If our “hearts are naturally depraved” and we are prone to sinful natures, how are we to attain to Christ’s perfect character?`

`When someone “becomes a true disciple of Christ, the power of divine grace transforms and sanctifies him.” Can you think of any biblical characters who exemplify this reception of divine grace?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 506.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Bible Training School, May 1, 1915.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 123.</sup>
<sup>4. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 559.</sup>

_Maritza Muñoz, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia_