---
title:  A Certain Triumph
date:   14/11/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 6:14

At their best, laws make life better. They can provide positive boundaries and structures that foster a caring community. However, they can also be misused to control and divide or to benefit one group to the detriment of others. The laws in the Old Testament—not only the Ten Commandments given to Moses on Mount Sinai but also the rest of the Jewish code of Law contained in the Torah—had been given by God to make life better for people (Jewish law covered not only religious behavior but also personal and social rules, with no delineation).

There were hundreds of rules and laws in place, and by the time Jesus was on earth, He could see that these laws were being used to control people. The experts in the law had actually burdened others and hindered them from gaining knowledge (Luke 11:37–53). This doesn’t mean that Jesus didn’t follow the law. In Matthew 5:17, 18, He tells us that He didn’t come to abolish the law but to fulfill it.

Similarly, in Romans 6:14, Paul isn’t saying that the law isn’t relevant to Christians or that we don’t have to do the right thing. The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary also notes, “Paul is not referring here primarily to any law in particular but to law as a principle. His point is that Christians are not under law as a way of salvation, but under grace.”<sup>1</sup>

The law has no ability to provide salvation or sanctification. It can act as a guide; but it can’t forgive us or change us. Galatians 3:10–25 makes it clear that the law was given to make sin clear to us and bring us closer to Christ; but it can’t free us from our sins. This is something that only comes from God through grace. Grace makes the true difference in our lives: “Under grace, however, the struggle against sin is no longer a forlorn hope, but a certain triumph.”<sup>2</sup>

Grace will bring us into greater obedience to God’s perfect law, which has love at the very heart of it—both for God and others (see Matt. 22:37 and John 13:34). His love is what offers us grace in the first place. By accepting and embracing this grace, we will not only grow in God but also better reflect the character of Christ in our own lives.

**React**

`How has grace changed your life? What can you do to better show God’s grace to those around you?`

<sup>1. The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 6, p. 541 (emphasis added).</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>

_Adele Nash, Cooranbong, New South Wales, Australia_