---
title:  Sanctification 101
date:   15/11/2017
---

**How-to**: Heb. 12:2; 1 John 1:9; Prov. 3:6; Matt. 6:28

Sanctification. I still remember hearing the word for the first time as a child and wondering what it meant because its meaning wasn’t instantly clear. Justification made some sense, simply because I recognized the word justify. However, the word sanctify had never appeared in my primary school vocabulary.

“It means to make holy or set apart,” a kindly adult later explained. However, that definition didn’t make the word any more comprehendible to my adolescent mind. What was being made holy? How did it get made holy? And what did setting something apart have to do with anything?

Many years later, I’ve simplified my understanding of sanctification to just four short words: “Be more like Jesus.” How do we do that? Here are a few steps to consider:

Look at Jesus. The Bible tells us that we need to keep our eyes on Jesus while we run the race of life (see Heb. 12:2). If we want to be more like Jesus, we need to look at His character. What qualities does He have? What characteristics should we be emulating to be more like Jesus? One thing that I’ve found helpful is to specifically read Jesus’ words in the Bible and think about what His quotes and actions say about Him and the Person that He is. Then I think about how my words and actions can reflect Him.

Let go. The more that we look at Jesus, the more we’ll understand just how terrible sin is—it threatened to separate us forever from our heavenly Father. Only Christ’s redemptive sacrifice paid our price. Being more like Jesus means letting go of the things (sins) that separate us from God. It’s not an easy thing to do. Acknowledge that. Tell Jesus it’s an issue. He is ready to forgive you (see 1 John 1:9) and help you get back on the right path (see Prov. 3:6).

Don’t worry. We often quote “consider the lilies” (Matt. 6:28, NKJV) when we’re discussing clothing, food, and other material goods, but the same God who provides for our material needs has also given us provision for our spiritual needs. I like the way Charles Spurgeon put it: “If He gives you the grace to make you believe, He will give you the grace to live a holy life afterward.”<sup>1</sup> If Jesus places that desire in your heart to live more like Him, trust that He’ll be with you throughout the journey.

**React**

`What characteristics does Jesus have?`

`How can your words and actions reflect your desire to be more like Jesus?`

<sup>1. C. H. Spurgeon, Sermons of Rev. C. H. Spurgeon (New York, NY: Robert Carter & Brothers, 1883), p. 308.</sup>

_Vania Chew, Sydney, Australia_