---
title:  Symptoms of a Disease
date:   16/11/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 6:14

First, consider this: A few hours after enjoying your favorite meal, you are gripped with nausea. A cold sweat has broken out over your body, and you tremble as your stomach churns.

Maybe the cheese was moldy; maybe the sauce was left out for too long. In any case, the next time you consider eating that dish again, a familiar queasiness rises in your stomach at the thought of it. You reach for something else instead.

This phenomenon is named conditioned taste aversion and occurs when the brain associates particular foods with a negative reaction experienced soon after it is ingested.<sup>1</sup> From that time onward, the body is sensitized to whatever made it sick and the food cannot be enjoyed.

Similarly, once we declare that Jesus is Lord and accept the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives, we are reborn and sin is no longer in our nature. However, some profess God’s name yet continue to cherish harmful behaviors that are against His law because of the mentality that grace lends ultimate freedom to do whatever we please. However, the law will always stand shoulder to shoulder with grace.

In allowing harmful behaviors to flourish in our lives, we fail to recognize the fact that sins—the actions—are merely symptoms of the much larger problem of sin—the disease. Some use grace as a covering for cherished habits and claim salvation. The hunger for these behaviors indicates that, like something harmful the body has ingested but failed to recognize as poison, the conditioned taste aversion has not been developed and the vulnerability is still there. However, by recognizing the deeper issue of sin as a disease, it is possible to become sensitized to what is truly causing the sickness.

Once we die to sin, it is no longer in our nature. Instead of regarding sin as something now permissible because of the grace we have received, more and more the focus should be on becoming re-created in Christ’s image. Only then will the things we once enjoyed and struggled to give up simply fall away.

**React**

`Why do we continue to cherish sinful actions even after we choose to believe in God?`

`What is the difference between sins and sin?`

<sup>1. “What Is a Taste Aversion?” Verywell.com, accessed July 14, 2016, https://www.verywell.com/what-is-a-taste-aversion-2794991.<sup>

_Amy Pitt, Melbourne, Australia_