---
title:  'Live in Faith: Salvation Is Promised!'
date:   17/11/2017
---

**Exploration**: Eph. 2:8; 2 Tim. 1:9

**Conclude**

Imagine if Christians today were still unsure of our eternal fate. Martin Luther struggled in agony, confusion, and frustration in his attempts to discover the beautiful Bible truth that we are saved by faith (Eph. 2:8). Paul’s writings in 2 Timothy 1:9 confirm that we are saved by God’s grace and not our works. Thank God that we as Seventh-day Adventists believe in sola scriptura, especially considering that this world is full of opinions—some valid and others corrupt and deceptive. The Bible gives us, postmodern Christians, a crystal clear picture of God’s love, sacrifice, and promise—the everlasting gospel!

**Consider**

- Journaling about a time when you did not understand something in the Bible and describing the process of epiphany that shone a light of clarity for you.
- Observing the clouds and imagining what the second coming of Jesus will look like.
- Painting an illustration to demonstrate the value and meaning of sola scriptura (by Scripture alone).
- Taking a walk and having a conversation with God about your faith in Him and your hopes for the future.
- Reading an article in a newspaper or magazine and trying to discern the perspective God would have on the story—compassionate, smiling, crying, gracious, establishing justice, hopeful, longsuffering, etc. Consider how you as a follower of Christ should respond.
- Making a collage to express the joy you feel knowing you are saved by faith and not by your works.

**Connect**

1. John 3:17; Revelation 14:6; Ephesians 2:8.
2. Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, chap. 5, “Consecration”; The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 35, “Salvation to the Jews.”
3. Max Lucado, In the Grip of Grace (Thomas Nelson, 1996), chap. 1, “The Parable of the River.”
4. C. S. Lewis, Surprised by Joy (Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, 1966), chaps. 4, “I Broaden My Mind,” and 14, “Checkmate.”

_Debbie Battin Sasser, Friendswood, Texas, USA_