---
title:  Man Became A Living Person
date:  08/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 2:7, 19; Ezekiel 18:4, 20; Ecclesiastes 12:1–7; Ecclesiastes 9:5; 1 Kings 2:10.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Then the Lord God took dust from the ground and formed man from it. The Lord breathed the breath of life into the man’s nose. And the man became a living person’ ” (Genesis 2:7, ICB).

In the Garden of Eden, God warned Adam and Eve, “ ‘You will die!’ ” But Satan promised them, “ ‘No, you for sure will not die!’ ” (Genesis 3:3, 4, NLV). God’s warning and Satan’s promise give us two different views about death and dying. These different ideas continue to this day.

Some people say that Satan’s promise is the same as God’s warning. They argue that the warning “ ‘You will die’ ” only talks about the body, which can be killed. These same people say that Satan’s promise, “ ‘You for sure will not die!’ ” is talking only about the spirit, which they say lives forever.

But this thinking is false. Can God’s words and Satan’s lies have the same message? Do we have a spirit that can live after we die? Many thinkers and scientists have tried to answer this question. But as Bible-believing Christians, we must understand that our God who made us knows everything about us (read Psalm 139). So, if we want answers, we must look to the Bible and the Bible only.

This week, we will learn what the Old Testament says about how God made humans and what happens when we die.