---
title:  “a Living Person” 
date:  09/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read about how God made the animals and humans in Genesis 1:24–27 and in Genesis 2:7, 19. What is the same about the way that God made both man and animals? What is different? What makes a human a living person? Read Genesis 2:7 for the answer.

The Bible teaches that God made the earth and the sky in six days. On day 6, the Lord made land animals and a man and a woman (Genesis 1:24–27). The Bible says, “The Lordord God used dust from the ground and made every animal in the fields and every bird in the air” (Genesis 2:19, ERV). God also “took dust from the ground and made a man” (Genesis 2:7, ERV).

God made both animals and man alike from the ground. But God made man different in two special ways. First, God made a body for the man. Then the man become a living person (Genesis 2:7). So, Adam had a body before he was alive. Second, God made humans to look and feel much the same as God Himself (Genesis 1:26, 27). Humans were copies of God in many ways. Animals were not.

Genesis 2:7 explains that God breathed the breath of life into Adam’s nose. God’s breath changed Adam’s lifeless body into a living person or soul. This Bible truth is important. Do you see that we don’t have a soul that lives separate from the body? Each one of us is a living soul or person. The Bible doesn’t teach us that the soul or spirit can live separate from the human body at all. This teaching is a lie. When we understand how God made humans, we will not accept the popular teaching that says the spirit continues living after the body dies.

Life is a mystery. Scientists don’t agree on when a person’s life starts and ends. A bigger mystery is our spirit. How do the cells and chemicals in our brains make thoughts and feelings? The scientists who study this question say that they don’t really know. So, we shouldn’t try to guess the answers to questions that the Bible doesn’t ask or answer.

Life is a powerful and wonderful miracle! Why should we feel joyful for the gift of this life? Why should the promise of everlasting life fill us with more joy than we feel for the gift of being alive now?