---
title:  “ ‘the Person Who Sins Will Die’ ”!
date:  10/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Ezekiel 18:4, 20 and Matthew 10:28. How do these verses help us understand the meaning of the Bible truth that “man became a living person” (Genesis 2:7, ICB)?`

Humans are the same as grass and flowers. They live for only a short time (Isaiah 40:6–8). Sin is the reason for our short lives. “One man [Adam] did a wrong thing. And the wrong thing he did made him die. So all men die because all have done wrong things” (Romans 5:12, WE). Sin started death. Sin changed all life on earth.

The Bible teaches us two important ideas about death and sin. (1) Both humans and animals die. King Solomon says, “The same thing happens to animals and to people. They both have the same breath. So, they both die. People are no better off than the animals. The lives of both are soon gone” (Ecclesiastes 3:19, 20, ICB). (2) When someone dies, he or she stops being a living person. In Genesis 2:16, 17, God warns Adam and Eve that if they sin, they will die.

We see this same warning in Ezekiel 18:4, 20: “ ‘The person who sins will die’ ” (ICB). This warning teaches us two things. First, we are all aging and dying because we are all sinners (Romans 3:9–18, 23). Second, the idea that the spirit continues to live after the body dies is false. If the spirit can’t die, then what happens to the spirit when our bodies die?

The Bible doesn’t teach that we float around with no body after we die. We also don’t go to heaven or hell the same day we die. When we die, our spirit sleeps. We wait for Jesus to wake up His followers from the dead at the Second Coming. Jesus says, “ ‘My Father wants everyone who sees his Son and believes in him to live for ever. I will raise him up on the last day’ ” (John 6:40, WE).

`Why is the Second Coming so important to our beliefs? What happens to our hope if we don’t believe that Jesus will come back?`