---
title:  “your Spirit Goes Back To God”
date:  11/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Genesis 2:7 and Ecclesiastes 12:1–7. What Bible truth do these verses teach us? How can they help us to understand better what happens to us when we die?`

As we saw already, the Bible teaches that the human is a living person. Another name for a living person is a soul (Genesis 2:7). A person or soul has two parts: (1) a body and (2) a spirit. The Bible also teaches that a person or soul stops living when the body dies (Ezekiel 18:4, 20).

But what happens to the spirit? Does the spirit stay alive after the body dies? Many Christians believe this idea. They use Ecclesiastes 12:7 as proof. This verse says, “Remember your Creator [God who made you] before you return [go back] to the dust [the ground] you came from. Remember him before your spirit goes back to God who gave it” (NIrV). This verse does not say that the spirit stays alive when it goes back to God.

Ecclesiastes 12:1–7 talks about how we grow old and die. Ecclesiastes 12:7 says that death is the reverse of what happens in Genesis 2:7. As we saw, God made the sky and earth in six days. On day 6, “The Lord God took dust from the ground and formed man from it. The Lord breathed the breath of life into the man’s nose. And the man became a living person” (Genesis 2:7, ICB). But Ecclesiastes 12:7 tells us that “your spirit goes back to God who gave it” (NIrV). So, this verse shows that the breath of life, or spirit, that God breathed into the nose of Adam goes back to God. In other words, when we die, the breath of life from God stops flowing into our bodies.

We should remember that Ecclesiastes 12:7 talks about how all humans grow old and die. This verse doesn’t say that evil people grow old and die in a different way than saved people do. So, when evil people die, their spirits do not stay alive in heaven with God. This idea doesn’t match what the Bible says. All humans and animals grow old and die (Ecclesiastes 3:19, 20). Death is the end of life. A psalm writer says, “When you turn away from them [humans], they become frightened [scared]. When you take away their breath, they die and turn into dust” (Psalm 104:29, ICB).

`We often say that death is a part of life. Why is this idea wrong? Death does not support life. Read 1 Corinthians 15:26. What promise in this verse gives us hope?`