---
title:  “the Dead Don’t Know Anything”
date:  12/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What happens to humans when they die? How do Job 3:11–13; Psalm 115:17; Psalm 146:4; and Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10 help us answer the question?`

Some Bible thinkers say that Job 3:11–13; Psalm 115:17; Psalm 146:4; and Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10 can’t help us answer the question. These thinkers argue that these verses are parts of poems. Poems often can be hard for us to understand. But we can understand these verses. Their language is easy to read and understand. Their ideas match with the Old Testament teachings about death.

In Job 3, Job says he hates the day he was born because he suffers so much. (We often feel this way too, right?) Job understands that if he died when he was born, he would be sleeping in his grave (Job 3:11, 13).

Psalm 115 tells us the location where God keeps the dead. This place is silent because “The dead don’t praise him. Those [dead people] in the grave don’t praise the Lordord” (Psalm 115:17, ERV). How can they? Dead people can’t praise God after they die.

Psalm 146 teaches us that dead people stop thinking and making plans: “When people die, they are buried. Then all of their plans come to an end” (Psalm 146:4, ICB). The NLV writes Psalm 146:4 this way: When a person dies, “his thoughts end on that day.” These verses explain what happens when a person dies.

In Ecclesiastes 9:5, Solomon adds, “The dead don’t know anything” (ERV). Solomon also says “In the grave there is no work. There is no thinking, no knowledge, and there is no wisdom” (Ecclesiastes 9:10, ERV). These teachings are proof that the dead are not alive after they die.

Christians should not panic at these Bible teachings. First, these teachings are proof that there is no everlasting hell where evil people are sent to burn forever after they die. There also is no “waiting room” between earth and heaven. There is no resting place for spirits to meet after they die. We do not get a second chance to be saved after we die. The Bible teaches us that Jesus’ followers will wake up at the Second Coming. Jesus will give His followers this reward when He comes again. Until that day, the dead must sleep. (Read Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 787.)