---
title:  Resting With The Fathers 
date:  13/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 25:8; 2 Samuel 7:12; 1 Kings 2:10; and 1 Kings 22:40. What do these verses teach you about death?`

The Old Testament talks about death and burying the dead in graves. We read that Abraham was buried with his people: “Then Abraham breathed his last and died, after living a long and full life of many good years, and was buried with his people” (Genesis 25:8, NLV). Aaron and Moses also “joined” their people when they died (Deuteronomy 32:50).

`Both good and bad kings ended up in the same place when they died. They go to the grave (read 2 Kings 24:6 and 2 Chronicles 32:33). What does this information teach us about death?`

The Bible uses the words “rested” or “buried” when someone dies. When King David died, the Bible says, he “was buried with his ancestors [family members who had already died] in Jerusalem” (1 Kings 2:10, ICB). The same words “buried with his ancestors” are used to talk about several other Hebrew kings, both good and bad.

We can learn at least three important ideas from the words “buried with his ancestors.” (1) We will die. We will rest from our work in this life. (2) Our family members already died before us. (3) When we are buried close to our dead family members, we are not alone. We stay together after death. This idea may be hard for us to understand today. But this idea gave comfort to people in Bible times.

When we die with Jesus in our hearts, we can be buried close by our loved ones. True, the dead do not communicate with each other or with the living. They stay dead until Jesus comes back. Jesus wakes them up from their deep sleep. Then they will join their loved ones who also died with Jesus in their hearts.

What if the dead were really awake and saw everything that happened here on earth? This idea is awful. Why do people believe this false idea? How does sleep help us understand God’s plan for everlasting life?