---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The First Great Deception,” pages 531–550, in The Great Controversy.

“What if the spirits of dead men went straight to heaven when they died? Then who would want to live? Wouldn’t it be better to die so we could go to heaven faster? Many people killed themselves because they believed they can go to heaven faster. Their hearts were filled with trouble. They felt confused and sad. So, they tried to take the easy way out of their problems. They thought it was better to die and go to heaven sooner.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 539, adapted.

“Saved people don’t go to heaven when they die. Also, evil people don’t go to hell when they die. The Bible doesn’t teach these false ideas at all. The men and women in the Bible don’t make us these false promises. Jesus and His followers also don’t teach these false ideas. The Bible teaches that the dead stay in the grave. The Bible shows us that the dead sleep until Jesus wakes them up from the dead at the Second Coming.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 549, 550, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The Bible teaches that humans are a whole living person or soul. Humans only are alive while their body and spirit stay together. How does this idea help us understand better what happens after we die?`

`Many people believe that the spirit doesn’t die after death. This false idea has become so popular that people everywhere accept it worldwide, except Seventh-day Adventists. Why is our message about what happens after we die so important? Why are so many Christians against this Bible truth?`

`How should our understanding about what happens after we die protect us from false beliefs about ghosts? Also, why is it wrong to believe that we can talk with our loved ones after they die? Why can’t we always trust what we see? What would you say to someone who believes that the spirit of a dead family member communicates with him or her? What Bible verses from our study this week can you share with this person? How can we share this news using soft words?`