---
title:  Micah
date:  30/07/2019
---

`“He has shown you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?” (Mic. 6:8, NKJV). What are ways, right now, that you can live out these words?`

Micah 6:8 is perhaps one of the best-known texts in Scripture. Yet, like many of the verses we make into slogans or “posters,” we are probably less familiar with the context of the verse than we might admit.

`Read Micah 2:8–11 and 3:8–12. What were the people doing that Micah condemned?`

The reign of Ahaz as king in Judah saw God’s people reach a new low in the history and spirituality of their nation. Idolatry and its various evil practices were increasing. At the same time, as other prophets of the time also noted, the poor continued to be exploited and preyed upon.

Micah is no less a prophet of doom than were his contemporaries. Most of his first three chapters express God’s anger and sorrow at the evil His people had done, as well as the destruction that was coming their way. But God had not given up on His people. Even the strident voices and harsh messages of the prophets were an indication of God’s continued interest in His people. He gave them warnings because of His love and care for them. He longed to forgive and restore them. He would not stay angry forever (see Mic. 7:18–20).

Such is the context of the well-known “formula”—act justly, love mercy, walk humbly. It might sound simple, but living such a faith in practical ways is much more challenging, especially when to do so seems so out of step with the surrounding society. Acting justly, loving mercy, and walking humbly requires courage and perseverance when others profit from injustice, scoff at mercy, and ride proudly. Yet, we don’t do this alone; when we act this way, we are walking with our God.

`What is the link between doing justice, loving mercy, and walking humbly before God?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

With those who dare to deal without mercy, God will deal as they have dealt with those who besought them for aid. . . . 

True sympathy between man and his fellow man is to be the sign distinguishing those who love and fear God from those who are unmindful of His law. . . .

 . . . God places upon them the responsibility of caring for the unfortunate, the blind, the lame, the widow, and the fatherless; but many make no effort to regard it. In order to save such, God frequently brings them under the rod of affliction, and places them in positions similar to those occupied by the persons who were in need of their help and sympathy but who did not receive it at their hands.—_Welfare Ministries_, p. 242. 

The Pharisees had only scorn and condemnation for [sinners]; but Christ greeted them as children of God, estranged indeed from the Father’s house, but not forgotten by the Father’s heart. And their very misery and sin made them only the more the objects of His compassion. The farther they had wandered from Him, the more earnest the longing and the greater the sacrifice for their rescue. 

All this the teachers of Israel might have learned from the sacred scrolls of which it was their pride to be the keepers and expounders. Had not David written—David, who had fallen into deadly sin—“I have gone astray like a lost sheep, seek Thy servant”? Psalm 119:176. Had not Micah revealed God’s love to the sinner, saying, “Who is a God like unto Thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of His heritage? He retaineth not His anger forever, because He delighteth in mercy”? Micah 7:18.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 186. 

The Lord will not compel men to deal justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with their God; He sets before the human agent good and evil, and makes plain what will be the sure result of following one course or the other. Christ invites us, saying, “Follow Me.” But we are never forced to walk in His footsteps. If we do walk in His footsteps, it is the result of deliberate choice. As we see the life and character of Christ, strong desire is awakened to be like Him in character; and we follow on to know the Lord, and to know His goings forth are prepared as the morning.—_The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald_, March 31, 1896. 

On the church in its organized capacity [God] places a responsibility for the individual members. Toward those who fall into sin, the church has a duty, to warn, to instruct, and if possible to restore. . . . Deal faithfully with wrongdoing. Warn every soul that is in danger. Leave none to deceive themselves. Call sin by its right name. Declare what God has said in regard to lying, Sabbathbreaking, stealing, idolatry, and every other evil. . . . In choosing to sin, they disown Christ; the church must show that she does not sanction their deeds, or she herself dishonors her Lord. She must say about sin what God says about it. She must deal with it as God directs, and her action is ratified in heaven.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 805, 806. 