---
title:  The Message In Hebrews
date:  01/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 1:5–14; Psalm 132:1–5; 11–14; 1 Samuel 8:19, 20; Hebrews 5:1–4; Hebrews 8:8–12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Now the important thing is this: We have such a Religious Leader Who has made the way for man to go to God. He is the One Who sits at the right side of the All-powerful God in the heavens” (Hebrews 8:1, NLV).

AROUND 100 A.D., a Jewish person wrote this prayer: “I have told you everything, O Lord, because you said you made the earth and everything in it for us. . . . And now, O Lord, see how other people control us. These people are weak and are nothing. But they eat up Your people the same as if we were food! You said we are the same as your first-born and only child. You said we were most dear to You. We are eager to serve you. But we are under the full control of other people.”—James H. Charlesworth, ed., The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha, volume 1 [New York: Hendrickson Publishers, 1983], page 536, adapted.

The Christians in the book of Hebrews may feel the same way as the person who wrote this prayer. If these Christians were the children of God, why were they suffering so much?

Paul wrote Hebrews to help the faith of the Christians grow stronger during their hard times. Paul told them (and us) that God will keep His promises. Soon Jesus will take us home. For now, He works for us in heaven. He gives us the blessings of God. So, we must stay strong in faith.