---
title:  Jesus Is Our King 
date:  02/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus is our King. This idea is the most important topic in Hebrews. Jesus sits at the right hand of God the Father (Hebrews 8:1). As God Himself, Jesus always controlled heaven and earth. But when Adam sinned, Satan stole control of the earth from Jesus (John 12:31; John 14:30; John 16:11). Then Jesus came to this earth. He beat Satan at the cross. Jesus became the lawful King of all people who accept Him as their Savior (Colossians 2:13–15).

Hebrews 1 and 2 show us how God makes Jesus our King.

`Read Hebrews 1:5–14. What do these verses show us?`

Hebrews 1:5–14 has three parts. Each part shows us how Jesus becomes our King: (1) God adopts Jesus as His royal Son (Hebrews 1:5). (2) God introduces His Son to the angels. The angels worship the Son (Hebrews 1:6, 8). God announces that His Son will be King forever (Hebrews 1:8–12). (3) God tells His Son to sit next to Him. The Father puts His Son in charge of everything (Hebrews 1:13, 14).

The New Testament shows us that God kept His promises to David (read 2 Samuel 7:8–16; Luke 1:30–33). How? The answer is Jesus. Jesus was born from the family of David (Matthew 1:1–16; Luke 2:10, 11). Jesus was known as the son of David when He lived here as a Man. Jesus was killed for saying He was the king of the Jews (Matthew 27:37). Peter and Paul preached that Jesus woke up from the dead to show that God kept His promises to David (Acts 2:22–36; Acts 13:22–37). John said that Jesus is “ ‘the Lion from the family group of Judah’ ” (Revelation 5:5, NLV).

For sure, Hebrews agrees. God keeps His promises to David in Jesus: (1) God gives Jesus a “more excellent” name than any angel (Hebrews 1:4, NIrV). (2) God adopts Jesus as His Son (Hebrews 1:5). God announces that Jesus will be King forever (Hebrews 1:8–12). God tells Jesus to sit at His “ ‘right side’ ” (Hebrews 1:13, 14, ERV). Also, Jesus leads His people into the rest God has for them (Hebrews 4). Jesus is the lawful King of heaven and earth. As King, Jesus fights a war against Satan, who stole control of this earth from Him. Jesus fights Satan for our hearts.

`How does knowing that Jesus is the King of heaven and earth give you comfort during hard times?`