---
title:  Jesus Is Our Helper 
date:  03/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Old Testament teaches us an interesting idea about the future King who will come from the family group of David. This King will go to God to get help for His people.

`Compare Exodus 4:22, 23 with 2 Samuel 7:12–14. Next, compare Deuteronomy 12:8–10 with 2 Samuel 7:9–11. Finally, compare Deuteronomy 12:13, 14 with Psalm 132:1–5, 11–14. What promises will be kept by the future Son of David?`

God adopts the people of Israel as His son. God promises Israel rest from wars with their enemies. God also will choose a place where His people will build Him a house to worship Him. God transfers all these promises from Israel to the future Son of David. God will adopt the Son of David as His Son. God will give His adopted Son rest from his enemies. The Son will build a temple for God in Israel. So, we see that God keeps His promises to Israel by the promises He makes to the Son of David. The Son of David will go to God for Israel. He will be their Helper. He will ask God to help His people.

A Helper is a very important part of the agreement between God and His people. The Helper and the work He does make friendship possible between Israel and God. The agreement God gave to Moses showed that all Israel must obey God to get His blessings and protection (read Joshua 7:1–13). But the agreement God makes later on with David shows that Israel will get the promised blessings because of the obedience of one Person: the future Son of David.

Sad to say, the Old Testament shows us that many kings from the line of David are not loyal to God. So, God cannot bless Israel the way that He wants to bless them.

But there is Good News. God sent His Son to be born as the Son of David. Jesus lived a life of perfect obedience to God and His law. So, God can keep all the promises He made to His people. When God blesses the king, all his people share in the blessings. The same thing happens for us with Jesus. He is our Helper. He goes to God for us. God chose Jesus to be the One who gives us all of His promised blessings. Jesus is the only hope we have of being saved.

`Think about how often you have broken the agreement with God. What does this thought teach you about why we must depend only on Jesus to save us?`