---
title:  Jesus Fights For Us 
date:  04/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare 1 Samuel 8:19, 20 and Hebrews 2:14–16. As we see in 1 Samuel 8:19, 20, what do the Israelites want a king to do for them? When we read Hebrews 2:14–16, how do we see that Jesus is the answer to all their wishes?`

The Israelites forget that God is their king. They want a human king to be their judge and war leader. Later, God becomes the leader of His people again because of Jesus. As our King, Jess leads us against the enemy.

Hebrews 2:14–16 shows us that Jesus is our champion. He fights for us because we are weak. Jesus fights the devil for us and beats him. Jesus also frees us from sin. That is not all Jesus frees us from. All our lives we are afraid to die. By His death, Jesus frees us from our fear of dying, too. The way Jesus fights for us helps us remember the fight between David and Goliath. David saves his people from slavery by beating Goliath. The rules of the fight said that the winner gets to make the people of the loser his slaves (1 Samuel 17:8–10). So, David acts as a champion, or a fighter, for Israel. He is their helper.

`Read Isaiah 42:13 and Isaiah 59:15–20. How does the Lord talk about Himself in these verses?`

We just saw how Hebrews 2:14–16 helps us remember the fight between David and Goliath. God will fight Satan for us, one-on-one. Isaiah shows us this same idea: “ ‘I will fight with the one who fights with you, and I will save your sons’ ” (Isaiah 49:25, NLV).

We may feel alone in our fight against Satan. Ephesians 6:10–18 shows us that, yes, we are in a fight. But God is our champion. He goes ahead of us to the fight. We are part of His army. So, we must put on His battle suit. We do not fight alone. The “you” in Ephesians 6 shows us more than one person. As Christians, we must put on the battle suit from God. Together, we stand behind our champion, Jesus. We fight with Him.

`What does it mean to put on the battle suit from God? Each day we fight against self and sin. How can the battle suit help us to be obedient to God in our daily fight?`