---
title:  Jesus, Our High Priest Or Religious Leader 
date:  05/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews 5–7 shows us a second job that Jesus does. Jesus is our High Priest or Religious Leader. His work as our High Priest shows us a promise God made to Jesus before He was born as a Son from the family of David: “ ‘The Lord has sworn [made a strong promise] and will not change His mind [plans]: “You are a Religious Leader [High Priest] forever, in the same way as Melchizedek” (Psalm 110:4, NLV; also read Hebrews 5:5, 6).

`Read Leviticus 1:1–9; Leviticus 10:8–11; Malachi 2:7; Numbers 6:22–26; and Hebrews 5:1–4. As these verses show, what is the job of the priest?`

The priests were helpers. They went to God to get help for the people. Priests helped people to be friends with God again and to understand Him better. History shows us that priests from every religion during Bible times helped their people know what the gods expected from them.

The Jewish priest also offers God gifts from the people. The people cannot bring their gifts to God. The priest knows how to give the gifts so that God will accept them. Then God will forgive His people and make them clean.

Priests also taught the law of God to the people. The priests were experts in the commandments. God put them in charge of explaining the law to His people. The priests showed the people how to live by the law of God, too.

Finally, the priests were responsible for blessing the people in the name of God. God also showed His plans for the people to the priest. The priest helped the people to see that God cared about them and wanted the best for them.

1 Peter 2:9 (NIrV) shows us something else about priests. Christians are “royal priests. You are a holy nation.” As royal priests, we can do special things the same as priests did. Priests came to God in His Holy Tent or temple. Today, we can come to God in prayer with bold faith (Hebrews 4:14–16; Hebrews 10:19–23). God also made us responsible for important work, too. We must work with God to save the people on this earth. God wants us to teach and explain His law to people. God also wants us to bring Him offerings of praise and good works. He loves these gifts!

`We are “royal priests,” as Peter says. How should this wonderful Bible truth change the way we live?`