---
title:  Jesus And The New Agreement 
date:  06/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews 8–10 shows us the work that Jesus does for us under the New Agreement. The Old Agreement shows us only a hint of the good things God promises us. The Old Agreement helps us see the work that Jesus will do after He comes to this earth. The priests or religious leaders of Israel also show us the work that Jesus will do. But the priests were sinners. They were born and later died. So, they cannot do the work Jesus did. The priests also served in a temple that was only a copy of the temple in heaven (Hebrews 8:5). Now Jesus works for us in the temple in heaven. Only His blood can make us clean. Animal blood never can clean our minds or hearts. When Jesus makes us clean, we may come to God with bold faith (Hebrews 10:19–22).

`What does God promise us in the New Agreement? Read Hebrews 8:8–12 for the answer.`

When Jesus became our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader, He made a new way for us to go to God. This new way is named the New Agreement. The New Agreement does what the Old Agreement cannot. The New Agreement gives us everything God promised. Only a High Priest who is God can give us these things because He is perfect and lives forever. As our High Priest, Jesus explains the law of God. He puts His law in our hearts and minds. Jesus offers God the gift of His blood. This gift brings us forgiveness from God. Jesus makes us clean from sin. He changes our lives. He changes our stubborn hearts. He gives us tender hearts that will obey Him (Ezekiel 36:26). Jesus really makes us new in every way (2 Corinthians 5:17). Jesus blesses us in the most wonderful way, too: He helps us meet with God Himself.

God made the Old Agreement to show us the future work of Jesus. The Old Agreement was a beautiful plan. But some Jews misunderstood it. They did not accept the Bible truth shown by the Old Agreement. So, they missed the blessings that Jesus, our High Priest, wanted to give them.

“The temple on earth shows us the work Jesus does for us in heaven. Jesus is the life of the temple. The animal gifts showed the death of Jesus on the cross. The work done by the priests showed the future work of Jesus. Together, these things showed how the death of Jesus saves humans. When Jesus died, humans no longer need these offerings.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 165, adapted.