---
title:  Further Thought
date:  07/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Hebrews shows us many Bible truths. These truths fill us with hope. But Hebrews also is filled with warnings. We can read some of them in chapters 10–12. These chapters show us at least two important ideas: (1) Paul compares his readers to the Israelites in the desert. And (2) Paul wants us to have hope.

The Israelites in the desert saw the surprising power of God. God did many miracles to free His people from Egypt. The Israelites in the desert also heard God talk to them on the very high hill named Sinai. There, God said the Ten Commandments. The Israelites in the desert saw the cloud of fire in the night. They saw the cloud that protected them during the day. They ate manna. Manna was bread from heaven. The Israelites in the desert also drank water that poured from rocks wherever they camped. But when these Israelites arrived at the border of the Promised Land, they did not trust God. They did not have enough faith to enter the land. God asks His people to trust Him. “Without faith no one can please God” (Hebrew 11:6).

Paul says that we, too, are the same as the Israelites in the desert. We also are at the border of the Promised Land (Hebrews 10:37–39). We are responsible for far more than the Israelites in the desert. God blessed us with more Bible truth than He gave them, too. We did not hear God talk at Sinai. But the Bible shows us a bigger picture of God and His love on Zion: Jesus Christ, who is God Himself. Jesus became a Man to save us (Hebrews 12:18–24). The question is: Will we have faith? Paul encourages us to follow the example of many men and women of faith in the Bible (Hebrews 11). Jesus is the most important person on the list Paul makes (Hebrews 12:1–3).

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus is our Champion. He goes ahead of us to fight the devil. How can we fight together as a whole church behind our Champion? What things stop our church from coming together in agreement? What are ways that Satan can weaken us as a church? How did Satan weaken Israel in the past?`

`As believers, we are a community of priests or religious leaders. We serve under the command of God. How can your local church offer better gifts of praise and good works to God?`

`How are we the same as the Israelites in the desert right before they entered the Promised Land? What lessons can we learn from their awful mistakes?`