---
title:  Walking the Walk
date:  30/06/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 1:1–3

The lesson this quarter focuses on the book of Acts. Just from the name, we can see that the narrative deals with things the apostles did after Jesus’ resurrection and ascension. When we read the book, we read about how the apostles behaved. The verb to act implies behavior, not thoughts or intentions or motivations. The word acts, as a plural noun, can describe the results of those actions. The book, then, focuses on deeds, not words. To start us thinking about acts as a collection of actions, let’s ponder a common saying and then look at a personal illustration.

First, the saying: “If you are going to talk the talk, you had better walk the walk.” In other words, before you preach, put into practice what you believe. The saying is often used when people have not been walking the walk but just talking the talk. People hate hypocrisy, and so for many, they want to see correct behavior, not hear lectures or sermons. The disciples were living examples of people who walked the walk; many of them were martyred for their faith, after teaching, preaching, and healing the sick. They lived their faith.

Next, the illustration: My wife will often ask me why someone did something odd or mean or degrading. I usually answer, without being ironic, “I don’t care.

We’ll never know, so it really doesn’t matter to me. What matters is what they did.” I believe actions speak louder than words. When people treat other people badly, it doesn’t ultimately matter to the victim what motivated the deed. Conversely, when people treat others well, especially if we are on the receiving end of good deeds, we don’t question their motives. We just know they’ve done a good thing and we have been blessed. Therefore, the best example of Christ does not come from a preacher up in the pulpit; it comes from a person helping her neighbor who has fallen down, a person who stops at the site of a traffic accident and comforts the injured, a person who makes food for the family that has just lost a loved one.

As we think about the “acts” of the apostles, we can look for ways we can also be more intentional in our behavior. While salvation isn’t dependent on our works, what we do matters. It certainly will matter to those we help. We are all apostles of Christ, called upon to follow in His footsteps. To be like Jesus is to behave like He behaved: He was accepting, forgiving, and very proactive, often running against the grain of the common practice. Let’s pray we can learn how to better “walk the walk.”

_Renard Doneskey, Cleburne, Texas, USA_