---
title:  Mission
date:  02/07/2018
---

**Ellen White on the Disciples’**: Acts 1:8; Luke 24:44–48

“As the disciples heard their Master explaining the Scriptures in the light of all that had happened, their faith in Him was fully established. . . . The events of Christ’s life, death, and resurrection, the prophecies pointing to these events, the plan of salvation, and the power of Jesus for remission of sins—to all these things they had been witnesses, and they were to make them known to the world.”1 “After the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the disciples, clothed with the divine panoply, went forth as witnesses to tell the wonderful story of the manger and the cross. They were humble men, but they went forth with the truth.

After the death of their Lord, they were a helpless, disappointed, discouraged company— as sheep without a shepherd: but now they go forth as witnesses for the truth, with no weapons but the Word and Spirit of God, to triumph over all opposition.”2

“The gospel commission is the great missionary charter of Christ’s kingdom. The disciples were to work earnestly for souls. They were to go to the people with their message. Their every word and act was to fasten attention on Christ’s name, as possessing that vital power by which sinners may be saved. His name was to be their badge of distinction, the authority for their action, and the source of their success.”3

“ ‘Ye shall be witnesses unto Me.’ [Acts 1:8.] These words of Jesus have lost none of their force. Our Saviour calls for faithful witnesses in these days . . . but how few . . . are ready to give a faithful, personal testimony for their Master! Many can tell what the great and good men of generations past have done, and dared, and suffered, and enjoyed. . . . But while so earnest in bringing forward other Christians as witnesses for Jesus, they seem to have no fresh, timely experience of their own to relate.”4

**React**

`1. What aspects of the disciples’ mission can be applied to how we witness?`

`2. How can you make sure you are willing to witness and to have some “timely experience” to share?`

_Benjamin Ermshar, Keene, Texas, USA_