---
title:  You Are Strong Together Before You Are Strong Apart
date:  03/07/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 1:12–14

The book of Acts is significant because it details the beginning of the disciples’ mission on earth and the amazing effects that the gospel had upon those the apostles shared it with. In the first chapter, the disciples are at the very start of their preparation to continue Jesus’ work, but He has told them to stay together and wait for the Holy Spirit. This is important because it indicates that Jesus had a plan for His followers that was larger than each individual and his or her respective testimony.

This was a very important time for the church and the world, in that the impacts of Christianity certainly did not remain local. The apostles were going to face many obstacles and persecution as they worked diligently to spread the gospel truth as fast and far as they could. Working together and maintaining unity among Jesus’ followers was and still is very important for success.

At the time of the book of Acts, the Roman Empire at first was very stable. Nearing the end of the book of Acts, things would become more turbulent, especially for Christians as they would increasingly be criminalized until eventually Nero would blame them for the great fire in Rome. In the first chapter of Acts, Jesus’ followers were relatively few in number, but there was still a need for organization.

Jesus saw this need, too, and had a plan. Pentecost is discussed in depth in the second chapter of Acts; however, the beginning of Pentecost takes place in the first chapter. In the fourth verse, Jesus commands His followers to stay in Jerusalem. He continues, saying, “ ‘John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit’ ” (Acts 1:5, NIV). He then reveals His plan, saying, “ ‘You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, . . . and to the ends of the earth’ ” (verse 8, NIV). Jesus told the disciples of the power of Pentecost and instructed them to stay in Jerusalem for this reason.

Jesus’ command to stay in Jerusalem was a part of His plan to gather them into one place. Clearly Jesus wanted the gospel to be spread to all parts of the world, so His counterintuitive command to remain localized for a period of time before the Day of Pentecost was deliberate and must have been to bring about organization for His followers.

**React**

`Why couldn’t Jesus have blessed His followers with the power of the Holy Spirit without bringing them together in Jerusalem?`

_Loisbet Castro, Keene, Texas, USA_