---
title:  Witnessing God
date:  04/07/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 1:9–11; Deut. 19:15

When Jesus ascended into heaven, the disciples stared upward and kept their eyes fixed on the cloud that hid Jesus. They were so focused on Jesus’ departure, the disciples did not notice the two angels appear beside them, reminding them that Jesus would soon return. They had a great duty to perform: to bear witness to Jesus Christ and to spread His good news to all the world.

We have the same duty to fulfill. We may not be able to perform miracles, but we have all received gifts and talents from the Holy Spirit—tools to be used to heal others and lead them to the One who gives us that power. Here are some ways to reach out:

Share personal testimonies. Sometimes, the only way others will begin to recognize God’s glory and goodness is through the trials and blessings in the lives of others. You can share your testimony to show what God has helped you overcome. Your journey can bridge the gap for those who have suffered similar events, and it can be used to give hope. We have more ways of communicating with the world than the disciples and followers of Jesus ever did—put your cell phone and the Internet to good use!

Recruit others. It is important to share your testimony, but how much more powerful will the testimonies of many be? “One witness is not enough to convict anyone accused of any crime or offense they may have committed. A matter must be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses” (Deut. 19:15, NIV). The power of one testimony has its limits, but many testimonies augment the power of each individual story, each piece of evidence, as proof of God’s character.

Remember God’s promises. God makes many promises in the Bible. His promises are true; there is evidence for this within the Bible—all the promises He has kept—and through the lives of countless people today.

Rely on God. If we know His promises are true and we have seen what He has done for us and the people around us, there is ample evidence to trust God with our lives. We can lean on Him—we must lean on Him—if we are to reach out to others. We shouldn’t try to do anything on our own; God is the source of all our strength. “ ‘Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord rises upon you’ ” (Isaiah 60:1, NIV).

**React**

`How can you share God with those who have never known God or with those who have hardened their hearts?`

_Kylie Kurth, Indianola, Iowa, USA_