---
title:  A Backup Plan
date:  05/07/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 1:21–23, 26

Not everything goes as planned on this earth. This was certainly true for the disciples of Jesus. It would have been a shock to hear Jesus say: “ ‘Very truly I tell you, one of you is going to betray me’ ” (John 13:21, NIV). It would have been shocking to see Judas stand up and leave that last supper. Judas, their friend, was not who they thought he was. “This wasn’t how things were supposed to happen,” they might have said.

Sometimes things do not go according to plan, and people we trust “ betray us” or betray the image we have of them. People can find themselves in a situation similar to that of the disciples: with a void that was once filled.

I think it is important to look at the disciples replacing Judas. It is small, and easy to miss. But I think the story gives us a good example of how God, along with people, can correctly deal with plan B situations.

In the course of one’s life, various people will fall in and out: friends will come in, and former friends will go away. Sometimes these experiences can be painful and unexpected. However, I believe that God looks tenderly upon us at such times, when one suffers the loss of another. And with tenderness, God places people in our lives to replace those who have left. He does not abandon us to the temporary pain of separation but plants new seeds that will grow.

One should also notice that the disciples didn’t try to figure out who was best to replace Judas. There was more than one option. Joseph and Matthias were both chosen as good men “ ‘who [had] been with [them] the whole time the Lord Jesus’ ” had been with the disciples (Acts 1:21, NIV). But the disciples, being only men, could not know the hearts of these men or know who would be the best to replace Judas. The disciples relied on God’s wisdom to make the final choice.

So the disciples prayed, “ ‘ Lord, you know everyone’s heart. Show us which one of these two you have chosen to take over this apostolic ministry, which Judas left’ ” (verse 24, NIV). The disciples cast lots, leaving it up to the Lord, “and the lot fell to Matthias” (verse 26, NIV). God replaced the lost, absent disciple and was faithful to those who had lost a companion.

**React**

`1. How can God be trusted to have influence in something as random as casting lots?`

`2. Is the replacement of a loved one or friend always a backup plan, or is it, perhaps, what God knew was best for us from the beginning?`

_Andre Doneskey, Keene, Texas, USA_