---
title:  The Wise Acts of Jesus
date:  06/07/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 1:21–23, 26

**Conclude**

More than anything, Jesus wanted His loved ones to be saved. He tried everything He could to prepare them for what was to come, and He chose the people who He thought would be best for each task that He wanted to complete.

This is how Matthias was chosen to replace Judas when it was revealed that Judas was not able to complete the mission. The disciples did not have much time to discuss the reason for everything that had happened; all they had time to do was assess the issue and find a solution. Everything Jesus does is for a great reason, even if the reason cannot be fully understood by others.

Much of what He does can be very confusing, but once it is done, it can be understood if one is willing to try to understand it. Peter then stood up and tried to explain to those closest to Jesus what he himself understood regarding what was happening. The apostles were now on a mission from God, and it was up to them at this point in time to spread what they knew about the Son of God to others so that they, too, could be saved.

**Consider**

- Thinking of a way you can be like the apostles and spread your knowledge to someone else, either through a small Bible study or even just a casual conversation with someone who is interested.

- Writing down some things that you have done as acts of service to other people so you can be motivated to do more.

- Trying not to focus so much on the why of a situation. Rather, sit down, assess, and find a reasonable solution. Life rarely goes as planned, and the art of adaptation is something everyone should master.

- Reading more sections of the Bible, especially quotes from Jesus to try to get to know Jesus better so that you can understand His actions when it is most important.

- Practicing what you preach. As one can see here, actions mean a lot more than words do. If you preach something, it only makes sense to follow up what you say with your actions. Do not say one thing and do another, because that makes you look like an unreliable person and your opportunities will be shortened, much like Judas’s.

**Connect**

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 2, “The Training of the Twelve”; chapter 3, “The Great Commission.”

_Sasha Doneskey, Cleburne, Texas, USA_