---
title: 'The Rich Young Ruler: The End-time Givers'
date: 18/03/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew
19:16–22**

**The
Rich Young Ruler: The End-time Givers**

When he was a young Australian entrepreneur, Julian Archer escorted mafia drug dealers around Italy, negotiated with terrorists in the Himalayas, patted tarantulas in Argentina, and made millions of dollars. Now as a leader for the Adventist Church in the South Pacific region, Julian believes that when a person is financially blessed, they’re in the most spiritually dangerous stage of life. “The richer I became, the less I felt my need for God,” said Julian. “I wanted to put God first, but I had so many other pressing priorities—and I really loved money and all that it gave me,” he added. In his book Help! I’ve Been Blessed! How to Stop God’s Blessings From Becoming Curses, Julian tells how he filled up the inside of his heart with God’s blessings instead of God.

Being a church member, he knew that Jesus asked the question “What profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul?” (Matt. 16:26). He also knew that Jesus said that we can’t love both God and money. “But how could I change my heart?” wondered Julian. It finally became clear to him that even being a church member doesn’t necessarily prevent anyone from loving money.

In his book he tells how, by God’s grace, he accepted His invitation to fall in love with Jesus and to follow Him wherever He led. “As a result, we sold the family business, increased our systematic and sacrificial giving to God’s priorities, and started to put God first.”

“I still struggle to keep my eyes on Jesus every moment of every day,” says Julian, “but I have learned this powerful lesson: As my blessings go up, my knees must go down.”

Understanding the risk of being blessed, Julian listened to Jesus’ invitation and surrendered his life to Him. This week’s narrative will focus on a biblical character that was also blessed, heard Jesus’ call, but failed to follow Him. How can those who live in the time of the end learn from his mistake, and make right decisions while it is still time?

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 19:16–22 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Matthew 19:21, 22. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind-map it.

` `