---
title: A Radical Invitation
date: 19/03/2023
---

#### inGest

He was a young well-known leader in his “church,” and very affluent. Honestly seeking God, he believed that he was complying with all of His requirements. Nevertheless, he felt as though there was still something else missing in His spiritual life. There was, but he couldn’t see it. As sometimes happens to those who excel in what they do, his apparent flawless behavior was preventing him to see the truth about himself!

Jesus had “departed from Galilee and came to the region of Judea beyond the Jordan” (Matt. 19:1) when the rich young ruler saw Him healing the great multitudes. In search of a deeper experience with God, he was also attracted to Jesus. Not only did Jesus’ healings impress him—he was also captivated by the tenderness by which Jesus treated the little children and by His wise answers when questioned by the Pharisees. All these were evidences that Jesus was led by a higher power and made him to desire becoming His disciple. Jesus would certainly be able to tune up his already-perfect character, he thought, confirming him the way to eternal life.

As Jesus “was going out on the road,” he finally ran after and knelt before Him (Mark 10:17) asking, “Good Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?” (Matt. 19:16). Jesus questioned back, encouraging him to believe in His divinity: “Why do you call Me good? No one is good but One, that is, God.” (v. 17). Jesus knew that only by accepting His divinity could the human heart be converted and then enabled to accept Jesus’ radical invitation.

“If you want to enter into life, keep the commandments,” said Jesus (v. 17). Apparently not knowing which ones, the rich young ruler asked for clarification. After mentioning five of the six last commandments, Jesus summarized the second table of the Ten Commandments by saying, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself” (v. 19)! This was the point! To love is more than a cliché. It is a state of being essential for entering God’s kingdom.

Unable to apply Jesus’ answer to himself, the rich young ruler focused again on doing, instead of on being: “All these things I have kept from my youth. What do I still lack?” (v. 20). How could Jesus show him what was lacking? There was a way: “If you want to be perfect,” said Jesus, “go, sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me” (v. 21). And “he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.” (v. 22).

It was the rich young ruler’s kind of time of the end, as Jerusalem would be destroyed in a few years, and he would lose everything anyway. Therefore, Jesus’ invitation was not only meant to prepare his character for eternity, but also to help him move his properties to a safer place above while there was still time. Meanwhile Jesus would certainly provide for him!

This episode is a lesson for those who will also be invited to surrender everything before the time of trouble, when they will no longer be able to dispose of their possessions to advance God’s work. Can we then trust Jesus’ provision and learn to live completely by faith? The rich young ruler decided to trust in his possessions instead and to live by sight. His love for positions and for temporal advantages was still higher than his love for God and for His less-fortunate children. Let us put all we have on the altar and earnestly inquire of God for the right timing for disposing of those things. Note that many have disposed of their properties prematurely, but during the time of trouble in the future, it will be too late! May the Lord reveal the right time!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Matthew 19:16–22. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How can someone seriously develop more trust in Him?`

`What is Jesus asking me to surrender that may increase my love for Him and for those in need?`