---
title: 'True Religion'
date: 20/03/2023
---

#### inTerpret

According to the popular belief, those who are very “religious” are supposedly nearer to God and more entitled to heaven. But the message to the church of Laodicea (Rev. 3:14–22) reveals that this false assumption may become one of the most deceiving traps for religious people.

The trap is that “religiosity” (frequently a behavioral/ceremonial focus) may easily be mistaken as true religion (a more relational focus). The word “religion,” from the Latin religare, which means “to bind” (again), refers to God’s initiative to (re)connect a broken relationship with Him. This relationship was broken by the human side in the Garden of Eden. Since then, sin became more than an act. It became a condition of the human nature, causing separation from God (Isa. 59:2) and, consequently, death (Rom. 6:23).

Although essential in a relationship with God, religiosity, zeal, and strict obedience are unable to change that condition of separation from God. A person in this “religiosity” state (who focuses on religion but misses God) may even do what is right while still preferring what is wrong and leads to death. In this way, religiosity may disguise itself as true religion, because both may lead to a zealous observance of rules and ceremonies. To help us to avoid this trap, God left us some signs that would help us to verify if we have truly been walking with Jesus.

Those who are reconnecting with Him will “bear much fruit” (John 15:8). This fruit appears in Galatians 5:22, 23 as having nine essential characteristics, the first of them being love, and the last, self-control. Self-control without God’s given love produces legalism, but love without God’s given self-control may generate nothing else than antinomianism or cheap grace.

According to Paul in 1 Corinthians 13, no religious observance will profit anything without love. James puts practical love and self-control together, indicating that this is “true religion,” which is “to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world” (James 1:27).

Ellen G. White presents important principles about how to exercise practical love toward the less favored (Welfare Ministry [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1952], chapters 22 and 23):

`No one who asks for food at our door should we turn away hungry (192).`

`Our interest should include both, their spiritual welfare and their temporal well-being (190). Taking care of just one aspect will not represent Jesus’ goal for them.`

`It is a mistake to give indiscriminately to all who solicit our aid (191).`

`The Lord does not require us to support those who are not diligent. Instead, we should manifest tenderness and compassion toward those beaten by unavoidable poverty (200).`

`By giving attention to those who do not help themselves, we may encourage idleness, helplessness, extravagance, and intemperance (191).`

`“The world owes no man a living who is able to work and gain a living for himself” (192).`

`We should place the poor where they can help themselves, instead of encouraging them to think that they can have their eating and drinking provided free. They should be educated to be self-reliant (194).`

`Donations of money, or institutional welfare should never replace personal welfare ministry (189).`

`“To give thought and time and personal effort costs far more than merely to give money. But it is the truest charity” (199).`

What if Jesus shows me this week that I still lack either love or self-control? Would I be willing to commit my life to Him, trusting in His kind ability to produce a change of heart and in behavior? Would I daily invite His Holy Spirit to abide in my body, developing in me trust and a new heart?

` `