---
title: 'Living by Faith'
date: 22/03/2023
---

#### inVite

Jesus’ true followers will always surrender all they are and have at His disposal. But it doesn’t mean that all God’s children will always be required to sell and to give all their properties, like the rich young ruler was asked to do.

It was especially during difficult times, when His children were about to lose all, that God has required them to deliver all their possessions to advance His kingdom—blessing the poor and supporting His work in the earth. After all, they would lose everything anyway!

When Abraham accepted God’s call, he was allowed to bring all his possessions with him (Gen. 12:5), using them to provide for his family and to promote God’s mission. This was not so with Noah, who lived in a typical “time of the end,” and needed to invest all he had in building the ark. It is only by being developing deep intimacy with Jesus that the Holy Spirit will be able to indicate to His dear children what to do and when.

For the rich young ruler, the act of selling and giving all he had was also a part of Jesus’ work of perfecting his character in preparation for eternity (“If you want to be perfect . . .” [Matt. 19:21]). He would need to develop that kind of love that reflects Jesus’ character which prepares someone to live with angels. It is attested by works for the unworthy or the less favored. Jesus considers this type of work as done to Himself.

The rich young ruler was allowed to see that “his exalted position and his possessions were exerting a subtle influence for evil upon his character. If cherished, they would supplant God in his affections. To keep back little or much from God was to retain that which would lessen his moral strength and efficiency; for if the things of this world are cherished . . . they will become all-absorbing.” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1898], 520.)

Unable to trust in Jesus’ ability to know the future and to provide for him, the rich young ruler rejected Jesus’ plan for him. If he could see ahead and how Jerusalem would be destroyed, he would understand that he would not be able to retain anything anyway. By moving his properties to the world above, he would receive them back with interest (Matt. 19:29).

Had he given his belongings as an offering, he would have become a model for those who live just before the time of trouble and would also lose everything. The generation that will see Christ’s second coming will need to exert trust while wisely transferring their properties to the world above and trusting Jesus for all their temporal needs.

During the time of trouble, property loss will be unavoidable. (See this week’s inSight.) Some will have their goods confiscated, while others will need to flee from the infuriated mobs. Those who will not have the mark of the beast will not be able to buy or to sell, and of what use would those properties be if, at the end, all things will be destroyed by fire (2 Peter 3:11)? Then everything that was not transferred to heaven and not invested in Jesus’ business will be lost forever.

It is in preparation for those extreme times that Jesus will raise extreme givers. Like Noah, who decided to live by faith, they will invest all they have in the last effort of preaching the gospel to a dying world while it is still possible. They know that “they are accumulating treasure which will be given to them when they shall hear the words, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant; . . . enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.’ Matt. 25:23.” (E. G. White, The Desire of Ages, 523.)

` `