---
title: 'The Flooding of the Jordan'
date: 19/10/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 3, 4

**The Flooding of the Jordan**

As the Israelites prepared themselves to cross the Jordan River, they probably had questions. _Why here? Why now?_ With a little planning, they could have avoided the challenge of crossing a flooding river.

In terms of elevation, the Jordan River is the lowest river in the world. The lower course of the Jordan begins at the south end of the Sea of Galilee, where the surface elevation is nearly seven hundred feet (213 m) below sea level. The water flows south for about seventy-five miles (120 km) before reaching the Dead Sea, which is 1,400 feet (430 m) below sea level. Water that flows into the Dead Sea doesn’t leave except through evaporation (contributing to its notoriously high concentration of salt). Israel crossed the Jordan River across from the city of Jericho (Josh. 3:16), which is located only about eleven miles (18 km) north of the Dead Sea. Theoretically, the Israelites could have avoided crossing any river by invading Canaan from the south rather than from the east.

The river Jordan is not terribly difficult to cross in drier seasons of the year. In modern times, the river is only about two to ten feet (0.5–3 m) deep during most times of the year. Due to industrial development, up to 95% of the river’s water flow is now diverted for human purposes, making the river much smaller today than it was during ancient times. But even in Bible times, the Old Testament provides many examples of people crossing this river (Judg. 8:4; 1 Sam. 13:7; 2 Sam. 17:22, 24). The crossing may have been somewhat routine during most times of the year, however, in the spring, when the snow in the mountains is melting, rising water levels can turn the river into a torrent, making river crossings rather dangerous.

Even when the river was flooding, it wasn’t impossible to cross. We know of two spies who made the crossing just before the entire Israelite camp did (Josh. 2:23), and in David’s time, trained soldiers crossed the river when it was flooded in an act of valor (1 Chron. 12:15). However, Joshua was not relocating the army’s special forces. The priests needed to carry the ark of the covenant and the other sanctuary furniture across, and hundreds of thousands of families needed to move children and household goods across a flooding, rushing river. Waiting a month or two for the currents to slow and the water levels to decrease would’ve been reasonable, but God sent them forward at the worst time according to human planning. They were to cross the river during the time of harvest, when the Jordan River overflowed all its banks (Josh. 3:15).

For all those who’ve been given an impossible assignment with insufficient resources, for all those who’ve asked, “Why here? Why now?” the story of Joshua reminds us that God can make a way. The story of Israel crossing the Jordan illustrates why God doesn’t necessarily lead His people on the easiest path at the most convenient time. Rather, He often allows us to face difficult circumstances so His power can be on full display. God takes great delight in delivering His people from impossible situations, which can’t happen if God always leads His people on an easy path.

In every trial, God’s purpose is to strengthen our faith and reveal more of Himself. The crisis at the Jordan certainly built the Israelites’ confidence and gave them courage for greater challenges ahead. Today, we should remember where God has led us and evaluate what He’s teaching us in our current circumstances. Do we embrace our challenges as a way for God to develop our faith? Are we allowing God to strengthen us in preparation for greater conquests? God asks us, “If you have run with the footmen, and they have wearied you, Then how can you contend with horses? And if in the land of peace, In which you trusted, they wearied you, Then how will you do in the floodplain of the Jordan?” (Jer. 12:5). Joshua’s story challenges us to move forward in faith wherever God calls, even if it seems irrational from a human perspective.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 3:5–13 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline all of Joshua 3, 4._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `