---
title: 'Moving Forward in Faith'
date: 20/10/2025
---

### inGest

When the time came to cross the flooding river, Israel’s faith was tested. “Sanctify yourselves,” Joshua instructed the people, “for tomorrow the LORD will do wonders among you” (Josh. 3:5). The priests were to form a vanguard, carrying the ark of the covenant before the people. Joshua told them in advance what would happen. As soon as the priests stepped into the water, the waters upstream would stand still. Everything downstream would drain, and the Israelites would cross on a dry riverbed. The people had to maintain a distance of over half a mile (nearly 1 km) from the sacred ark (v. 4).

As the people crossed the riverbed, they undoubtedly remembered the story of how God had opened up the Red Sea forty years before. Except for Caleb and Joshua, a whole generation had died in the wilderness. Some may have had a faint childhood memory of crossing the Red Sea, but many had only heard of it. Crossing the Jordan in this manner gave the people confidence that as God had been with Moses, so He was with Joshua. The people were strengthened in their belief that the God who halted the flooding river was indeed the “Lord of all the earth” (v. 11, 13). This miracle was a token of God’s ability to drive out “the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Hivites and the Perizzites and the Girgashites and the Amorites and the Jebusites” (v. 10).

The people followed the example of the priests, who were the first ones to exercise faith in God’s promise. Throughout Scripture, we see varying degrees of readiness to respond to God’s call. Thankfully, God shows patience even with those who are still hesitating. When Jesus asked Peter to launch his fishing boat into the deep waters and let down his nets, Peter responded with hesitant faith: “Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing; nevertheless at Your word I will let down the net” (Luke 5:5). In contrast, the Roman centurion didn’t even require Jesus to set foot in his home: “Only speak a word, and my servant will be healed” (Matt. 8:8). Abraham demonstrated similar faith when he was asked to offer Isaac as a sacrifice. Hebrews 11:17, 19 says, “By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac… concluding that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead.”

Today, God needs young people who are examples of faith, people who will lead the way and be the first to step into the water. As we exercise faith, our example can encourage others to follow. Joshua’s story of faith can continue with us as we move forward in faith.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`What Jordan is God calling you to cross?`

`How has God been patient when you’ve been hesitating?`