---
title: Lesson
date: 21/10/2025
---

### inTerpret

United Action

Before Israel crossed the Jordan, Joshua reminded them that they were all in the conquest together. Moses had already led Israel in destroying all the cities belonging to Og and Sihon, two Amorite kings who had threatened them (Deut. 3:3–6). The conquered land on the eastern side of the Jordan was given to the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh. This was the first step in their conquest and the first realization of permanent settlement. The families of the newly landed tribes must have felt like they had finally crossed the finish line. After four decades of wandering and numerous upheavals, they were home. They could put down roots, turn the soil, plant their crops, and rest.

The temptation to allow everyone else to continue conquering Canaan without them was probably strong, but Moses intervened to make sure nobody forgot their duty: “The LORD your God has given you this land to possess. All you men of valor shall cross over armed before your brethren, the children of Israel” (v. 18). They were to remain with the other tribes until everyone had received their land. Then they could make their way home.

Joshua repeated this injunction to the Israelites as they prepared to cross the Jordan (Josh. 1:12–18). Those who had already received their settlement were to leave it behind to assist their brethren in acquiring their own land. Though some of the tribes had enjoyed the first fruits of the land, the whole nation was to continue forward as one body. Even one tribe becoming lazy while the others shouldered the burden of the work would demoralize everyone. Everybody had to support the others in united action. As the human leader of the nation, Joshua had to ensure that these tribes would fulfill their commitment.

This story about the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Manasseh reminds us of the importance of helping one another with our varied challenges and opportunities. The men of these tribes could not simply send financial support; they had to temporarily leave their families behind and travel to another place to aid their brethren. This concept can be challenging today in a world fragmented by culture, language, and distance. The value of this sharing ethic is also found in the New Testament, where Paul wrote to the church in Galatia: “Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ” (Gal. 6:2). The church today needs young adults who are willing to serve outside their homes, beyond the church walls, and even in other countries to help advance God’s work wherever they’re needed.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what ways can you support moving the church’s mission forward together with your fellow believers?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 3, 4. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._