---
title: 'Retelling the Stories'
date: 23/10/2025
---

### inVite

After everyone had safely crossed the river, God commanded Joshua to choose twelve men, one from every tribe, for a special task. They were to gather twelve stones from the Jordan riverbed where the priests had stood. With these stones, they built a memorial to help the people remember and honor God’s faithfulness (Josh. 4:1–7).

Remembering the past facilitates success in the future. As Israel marched into Canaan, their greatest hopes would collide with their deepest fears. When the battles were fierce, recollections of God’s provision in the past would spur them forward. When their children were tempted to turn after other gods, the stories of the past would safeguard them from apostasy.

Stories matter, especially those that recount God’s faithfulness toward His people. As the apostle John wrote, “that which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us; and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And these things we write to you that your joy may be full” (1 John 1:3, 4). John shared his stories with others to deepen his fellowship with Jesus and offer his readers the same blessing.

The apostle John was also given visions in the book of Revelation to help God’s end-time people remember their past. In cryptic symbols, Revelation 12 traces the history of God’s persecuted church from the time of the apostles up to Satan’s final attack on God’s remnant people. In the heart of this prophetic narrative, John wrote, “And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony” (Rev. 12:11). Retelling the testimony, or story, of God’s people provides strength to overcome the enemy in the next battle. In their final conflict with Satan, God’s end-time people will find courage and comfort from the testimonies of previous generations. Knowing how Jesus has been victorious in the past gives us confidence that He will be victorious in the future. The stories of our spiritual lineage are essential for understanding our identity and mission.

Do you know the stories of what God has done for your family and how your family was led into the faith? Do you know the history of how Christianity and the Adventist faith came to your country? Do you know the biographies of the pioneers and missionaries who came to your country and of those who have been sent out from your country? Are you up to date on current developments, and are you contributing to the next story of faith?

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`What resources (e.g., books, podcasts, videos, sermons, reports) can you use to help you learn new faith-building stories?`