---
title: inQuire
date: 25/10/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Continuing forward after the death of Moses:**

1. How did God lead Israel across the Jordan River? _Read Josh. 3:5–17._
2. How did the conditions of the Jordan River at the time of the crossing emphasize God’s miraculous power? _Read Josh. 3:15._
3. Why was it important for the priests to step into the water before it parted?

`Personal reflection: How does this story help us understand why God doesn’t always lead us on the easiest path or at the easiest time?`

**All the tribes unite:**

1. Even though two and a half tribes had settled on the east side of the Jordan, why were their fighting men still required to cross to the west side of the Jordan with the other tribes? _See Josh. 1:12–18._

2. Today, how can members of a worldwide church, divided by culture, language, and distance, work together and support each other?

**Continuing forward after the death of Moses:**

1. What lesson can we learn from the memorial the Israelites built out of stones from the riverbed? _See Josh. 4._
2. Why is it important to remember God’s leading in the past? _See Pss. 78:10, 11, 42; 103:2; 105:5; 145:4–7._
3. What stories of faith have helped you? Perhaps from Reformation history? Adventist history? Missionary stories? Share books, podcasts, or YouTube channels that have helped you learn these stories with the group.

`Personal reflection: What do you do to help remember what God has done for you? What’s one challenge you’re facing right now? To build your faith, recount how God has come through for you or someone you know in a similar situation in the past.`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- God rarely calls us to do something at the most convenient time.
- God expects His people to work together and help carry each other’s burdens.
- We must remember God’s faithfulness in the past if we want courage and wisdom to do the right thing in the future.