---
title:  Accepting the Call
date:   21/10/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 12:14–17**

**Accepting the Call**

Before the Great Disappointment, when the Millerite movement was just gaining traction, God gave three people the gift of prophecy. The first was William Foy, a tall, eloquent, African American preacher from Boston. Foy received four visions prior to the Great Disappointment and faithfully shared them in public.

Hazen Foss was the second person to receive a vision. His story is not only heartbreaking but also serves as a warning. Shortly before Ellen White had her first vision, Foss had the same vision and was instructed to tell others. Unfortunately, he was upset after the Great Disappointment and refused. The Lord told him he would have one more chance. If he still didn’t obey, the vision would be given to someone else. He refused again, even with such a warning, and heard a voice say, “You have grieved away the Spirit of the Lord” (6LtMs, Lt 37 [1890]).

Frightened and horrified, he decided to share the vision after all and called a meeting of Advent believers. He explained what had happened but when it came time to share the vision, he couldn’t remember any of it—not a single word. Those present later described it as a most horrible and sobering scene. He later heard Ellen White share the same vision he had been given and implored her to be faithful in doing the work set before her, lamenting himself as a lost man. He lived into his seventies but never again showed any interest in spiritual matters.

The third person to receive the prophetic gift was Ellen White, who was called at the young age of seventeen. She struggled with her calling and hesitated to share in public what she had been shown, but she eventually surrendered and went on to be God’s faithful messenger to the Advent movement for the next seventy years.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 12:14–17 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `