---
title:  The Law and the Prophets
date:   22/10/2023
---

#### inGest

Throughout the Bible, we see a consistent correlation between the law and the prophets. When Israel followed God, accepted His counsel, and obeyed His law, He spoke to them through prophets. However, when they turned away from Him, He ceased to give the prophetic gift (Neh. 9:26; Lam. 2:9; Ezek. 7:26). Solomon outlined this cause and effect in Proverbs 29:18: “where there is no vision, the people perish” (KJV). The word “vision” here refers to the visions given to prophets (the gift of prophecy). The second half of the verse establishes a strong link between keeping the law and receiving prophetic vision. Revelation 12:17 confirms the principle that law keeping and prophetic ministry go together when it identifies the two most significant identifying qualities of the remnant as keeping God’s commandments and having the testimony of Jesus, which we learn later is the Spirit of prophecy (Rev. 19:10).

Historically, we can see this connection at play in the last three hundred to four hundred years of the Old Testament, when there was no prophet in Israel. Instead of engaging in open rebellion like they did before the Babylonian captivity, the nation had instituted a rigid legalistic outward show. The gift of prophecy was restored with John the Baptist and the apostles, but shortly after the death of the apostle John, when paganism swept through the church, we see a death of the prophetic gift until the mid-1800s. “The law of God and the Spirit of Prophecy go hand in hand to guide and counsel the church, and whenever the church has recognized this by obeying His law, the spirit of prophecy has been sent to guide her in the way of truth. . . . As the third angel's message arose in the world, which is to reveal the law of God to the church in its fullness and power, the prophetic gift was also immediately restored. This gift has acted a very prominent part in the development and carrying forward of this message” (Loma Linda Messages, p. 33). It is no mere coincidence that the rediscovery of the truth of God’s law, including the seventh-day Sabbath, and the restoration of the gift of prophecy happened around the same time; the two complement each other.

God called two people after the Great Disappointment, but only Ellen White heeded the call. Because she shared the light that she had been given and remained humble while doing so, God entrusted her with more visions and responsibility. She is the third most translated author in the world and is the most translated American and female author of all time. She was given over two thousand visions in her lifetime, which yielded more than forty books and over five thousand periodical articles. These works addressed a wide variety of topics spanning from biblical history to church governance, from health and finance counsel to advice on relationships and education.

God is just as eager to guide His church in the 21st century as any previous age. Let each of us be diligent to follow all the instructions that God has already given us so that we can be open to further leading. Unless we implement the knowledge we already have, it will be very difficult for God to lead us further. As Jesus said, “Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you” (John 12:35).

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What things in our lives make it hard for God to communicate with us? How can we receive more guidance from Him?`

`What are the two key ingredients of the remnant in Revelation 12:17 and how do they work together?`