---
title:  An Identifying Mark of God’s Movement
date:   23/10/2023
---

### inTerpret

Rejecting all modern-day prophets out of supposed loyalty to the Bible is a common happening in the church today. However, the Bible is clear that God will send the gift of prophecy again in the last days, so to be truly loyal to the Bible we must be open to the possibility of true prophets in the modern age. Jesus warned that there will also be many false prophets in the last days (Matt 24:11, 24). If we can expect to see many false prophets and some true prophets, it is especially important for us to remain cautiously open-minded to the idea of the prophetic gift and to test prophets according to Scripture’s standards (1 Thess. 5:19–21).

Revelation 12 is one chapter that clearly predicts a return of the prophetic gift in the last days. Just before the prophetic gift appears in verse 17 (called the testimony of Jesus), verse 14 introduces the 1,260-day timeline (though expressed in different terms, it’s important to note that 3 ½ “times” or years is the same as 1,260 days when using a 360-day calendar). When applying the biblical principle that one day represents one year (Num. 14:34; Ezek. 4:6), the 1,260 prophetic days symbolizes 1,260 literal years. We understand that this time period refers to when Rome ruled as a religiopolitical power between a.d. 538 and a.d. 1798. During this time, the church faced serious persecution. The Celtic Christians were massacred in the British Isles, the Waldenses were hunted in Northern Italy, and the Albigenses were slaughtered in southern France. The end of the 1,260 years of persecution was to be immediately followed by the appearance of the remnant church described in verse 17.

Verse 16 provides the geographical location of the event in verse 17, for it says, “the earth helped the woman.” Throughout Revelation, water or seas represents a populated area with established countries and languages (Rev. 17:15). Around 1798, this would have been the “old” world—Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. The earth in verse 16 therefore represents the opposite of this old world, which in 1798 would have been the Americas. At this period in history, the United States of America had become a haven for religious liberty. It was a young nation, sparsely populated, and firmly advocated for the separation of church and state. These combined factors provided a refuge for the thousands of persecuted Christians fleeing Europe.

By the time we get to verse 17, we’ve already been given two identifying qualities of God’s end-time people: first, it would arise after 1798, and second, it would arise in a less populated part of the world. Revelation 12:17 adds to those qualities, saying the remnant would keep God’s commandments and have the testimony of Jesus. Revelation 19:10 tells us two things about this testimony: first, it’s also known as the spirit of prophecy, and second, this spirit of prophecy is something given to the “brethren.” Revelation 22:9 tells us that the brethren are also known as the prophets. So, combining these verses together we can see that the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy or the gift of prophecy given to the prophets. Knowing this, we can be assured from Revelation 12:17 that God will have a remnant people on the earth who have the spirit of prophecy and keep all His commandments, including the Sabbath. God raised up such a movement when people from many different church backgrounds came together convicted of the Sabbath truth and open to the prophetic gift.

This gift of prophecy was manifested through the ministry of Ellen G. White over a seventy-year period. There is no evidence to suggest that she was the last prophet, but whether we will have another one with the same breadth of counsel and advice is not clear. May we always be both vigilant in differentiating between the true and the false and humble in following God’s leading and heeding His counsel.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Should we or should we not be skeptical of prophets? Why?`