---
title:  The Testimony of Jesus
date:   25/10/2023
---

### inVite

Revelation 12:17 uses the phrase, “the testimony of Jesus Christ,” an expression that appears four other times in the book (1:2, 9; 19:10; 20:4) and could grammatically be translated two ways. It could either be the testimony about Jesus, meaning what Christians witness about Jesus, or it could be the testimony from Jesus, meaning what Jesus witnesses to His church through His Word. When we look at each of the times the phrase is used in Revelation, the latter option seems the most plausible; it is a testimony from Jesus to His church.

In Revelation 1:1, 2, the phrase “testimony of Jesus” describes a revelation that Jesus gave to the apostle John who bore witness to the seven churches concerning things “which must shortly take place” (Rev. 1:1). The book of Revelation reveals Christ’s mind regarding future events. Revelation 19:10 says, “the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.” The people who receive this spirit of prophecy in this verse are “the brethren,” which is a term Revelation later uses for prophets (Rev. 22:9). In other words, the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy given to the prophets. The prophetic message gives the church a clearer picture of Jesus’ mind, heart, and plans for the future. Studying the prophetic writings will cause the morning star (Jesus) to arise in our hearts (2 Pet. 1:19). It is popular to attempt to embrace the Jesus of the gospels while ignoring the Jesus of Revelation, but it is the same Jesus in both the gospels and the book of Revelation. To resist the Jesus of Revelation is to resist the Jesus of the gospels. The book of Revelation encompasses both Jesus’ character and His plans for the future through prophetic symbolism. The opening phraseology of the book, “The Revelation of Jesus Christ,” refers not only to who Jesus is but how He plans to help His people navigate the coming apocalyptic crises. Revelation is the testimony of Jesus to His church about the road that lies ahead.

The promise from Revelation 12:17 that the testimony of Jesus will be alive in His last day church assures us that Jesus will not leave His people in darkness. He gives the prophetic gift to equip His end-time church to face significant challenges that previous generations have not had to endure. The testimony of Jesus is given to guide, direct, and carefully lead. Revelation promises that Jesus will send the gift of prophecy to help His people navigate the hazards of the last days, when God’s people will face the last showdown between good and evil. Just like a pilot boat may enter deeper waters to meet a larger vessel and guide it safely into harbor in places where the coastline is particularly rocky and dangerous, so Jesus gives prophetic insight to safely guide the figurative ship of the church into port as the Second Coming approaches.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How should the fact that Jesus gave us His testimony affect how we act in our daily lives?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`