---
title:  Jesus, Preacher of Peace
date:  26/07/2023
---

`How does Paul summarize the ministry of Christ in Ephesians 2:17, 18?`

The concept of peace is important in Ephesians, with the letter beginning and ending with blessings of peace “from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ” (Eph. 1:2, NKJV; compare Eph. 6:23). Earlier in Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul argued that Christ personifies peace, “For He Himself is our peace,” and that His Cross creates it (Eph. 2:14–16, NKJV). Christ not only destroys something—the hostility between Jew and Gentile (Eph. 2:14, 15)—He creates a new humanity, marked by relationships of reconciliation and peace (Eph. 2:15–17). Such peace is not just the absence of conflict but resonates with the Hebrew concept of shalom, the experience of wholeness and well-being, both in our relationship with God (Rom. 5:1) and with others.

`How does Paul imagine believers participating in sharing Jesus’ message of peace? Eph. 4:3; Eph. 6:14, 15; compare Rom. 10:14, 15 with Eph. 2:17–19, Isa. 52:7, Isa. 57:19.`

The Gospels contain examples of Jesus as a preacher of peace. In His farewell messages to the disciples, He promises them—and us—“ ‘Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you’ ” (John 14:27, NKJV). And He concludes, “ ‘I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world’ ” (John 16:33, ESV). After His resurrection, when He appears to the disciples, He repeatedly says to them, “ ‘Peace be with you’ ” (John 20:19, 21, 26, ESV).

In Ephesians 2:17, 18, Paul is keen to point out that Christ’s preaching of peace extended beyond the time of His earthly ministry. He has “preached peace” in the present to both “far” (Gentile believers before they were converted; ESV) and “near” (Jewish believers, ESV; compare Eph. 2:11–13). Having accepted this proclamation, all believers experience a profound blessing.

`How can we learn to be preachers of peace as opposed to conduits of conflict? To what situations, right now, can you help bring healing?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The peace spoken of by the great Teacher is larger and fuller than we have imagined. Christ is ready to do large things for us, to restore our natures by making us partakers of His divine nature. He waits to link our hearts with His heart of infinite love, in order that we may be fully reconciled to God; but it is our privilege to understand that God loves us as He loves His Son. When we believe in Christ as our personal Saviour, the peace of Christ is ours. The reconciliation provided for us in the atonement of Christ is the foundation of our peace; but gloomy feelings are no evidence that the promises of God are of no effect. You look at your feelings, and because your outlook is not all brightness, you begin to draw more closely the garment of heaviness about your soul. You look within yourself, and think that God is forsaking you. You are to look to Christ. In me, Christ says, ye shall have peace. Entering into communion with our Saviour, we enter the region of peace.—Lift Him Up, p. 332.

Christ is “the Prince of Peace” (Isaiah 9:6), and it is His mission to restore to earth and heaven the peace that sin has broken. “Being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.” Romans 5:1. Whoever consents to renounce sin and open his heart to the love of Christ, becomes a partaker of this heavenly peace.\
There is no other ground of peace than this. The grace of Christ received into the heart, subdues enmity; it allays strife and fills the soul with love. He who is at peace with God and his fellow men cannot be made miserable. Envy will not be in his heart; evil surmisings will find no room there; hatred cannot exist. The heart that is in harmony with God is a partaker of the peace of heaven and will diffuse its blessed influence on all around. The spirit of peace will rest like dew upon hearts weary and troubled with worldly strife.\
Christ’s followers are sent to the world with the message of peace. Whoever, by the quiet, unconscious influence of a holy life, shall reveal the love of Christ; whoever, by word or deed, shall lead another to renounce sin and yield his heart to God, is a peacemaker.—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pp. 27, 28.