---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/09/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Why Was Sin Permitted?” pp. 33–43, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “The Origin of Evil,” pp. 492–504, in The Great Controversy.

“There was no possible hope for the redemption of those [Satan and his angels] who had witnessed and enjoyed the inexpressible glory of heaven, and had seen the terrible majesty of God, and, in presence of all this glory, had rebelled against Him. There were no new and wonderful exhibitions of God’s exalted power that could impress them so deeply as those they had already experienced. If they could rebel in the very presence of glory inexpressible, they could not be placed in a more favorable condition to be proved. There was no reserve force of power, nor were there any greater heights and depths of infinite glory to overpower their jealous doubts and rebellious murmuring. Their guilt and their punishment must be in proportion to their exalted privileges in the heavenly courts.”—Ellen G. White, Confrontation, p. 21.

“From the beginning, God and Christ knew of the apostasy of Satan, and of the fall of man through the deceptive power of the apostate. God did not ordain that sin should exist, but He foresaw its existence, and made provision to meet the terrible emergency. So great was His love for the world, that He covenanted to give His only-begotten Son, ‘that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.’ John 3:16.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 22.

`**Discussion Questions**:`

`In class, wrestle with the question of whether God is ultimately responsible for the origin and existence of evil in our world. How might we seek to answer that charge?`

`How does the cross fit in with our understanding of the whole question of evil? Why must the cross and what happened there be central to any understanding of the origin of evil?`

`After so many millennia of sin and suffering in our world, Satan should now be fully aware of the tragic consequences of his rebellion. Why then does he still carry on his rebellion against God?`

`In Matthew 5:43–48, Christ speaks of God’s unconditional love for all human beings as the pattern for all our own interactions. How can you reflect this pattern more closely within your family and church?`

`The apostle Peter warns us that “the devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour” _(1 Pet. 5:8, NKJV)_. Read also Ephesians 6:10–20. How can we prevail against the “wiles of the devil” _(Eph. 6:11)_?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

My Life Today, “Through Christ There Is Victory,” p. 317;<br/>
The Great Controversy, “The Origin of Evil,” pp. 492–504.<br/>