---
title:  Teacher Comments
date:  30/09/2022
---

Key Texts: Isaiah 14:12–15, Ezekiel 28:11–19

#### Part I: Overview

God is love. Out of this love, He created a universe full of harmony, peace, joy, and more love. He filled the space of the universe with beings who were created to grow in happiness, service, and love. However, this perfect order was disrupted by an illogical rebellion in heaven against the Creator, who was accused of demanding strict obedience. Moreover, the Creator’s high standards were interpreted as the demands of a tyrant. The law of love was misrepresented as a restriction of freedom. The result was war in heaven (Rev. 12:7).

What had been previously unbelievable became a tragic reality. The wise and beautiful creature, the anointed guardian cherub (Hebrew: _kerub mimshakh hasokek_; Ezek. 28:14, RSV), called “Lucifer, son of the morning” (Hebrew: _helel ben shakhar_; Isa. 14:12, NKJV)—also translated as “the shining one,” “the morning star,” or “the son of the dawn”—rose up against the eternal, holy, caring, and loving Creator and presented unjustifiable accusations to exalt himself. Lucifer’s self-centeredness, charm, lies, deceit, and selfishness divided the angels and destroyed the perfect peace of heaven.

God, in His infinite wisdom, reacted by respecting Lucifer’s choice, thus enabling all intelligent beings to understand the destructive nature of evil, which at first glance could look attractive. Ultimately, a created being attacked his Creator, and disorder was born. The one who should have protected God’s government and its law was overthrowing its principles of respect and love in such a cunning way that even angels were confused in their loyalty to God. God, by accepting individual choice, demonstrated that He respected personal freedom but could not condone the destruction of life, its values, and principles of goodness.

#### Part II: Commentary

**The Mystery of the Origin of Evil**

The origin of evil is surrounded by one of the biggest enigmas. On the one side is “the mystery of iniquity” at work (2 Thess. 2:7); and on the other side is “the mystery of godliness” (1 Tim. 3:16), bringing a solution to the problem of evil. Lucifer’s pride was defeated by the humility of the Lord Jesus Christ in the guise of human flesh (Phil. 2:6–11). Because of His moral power and unselfish love, Jesus gained victory over Satan, despite being made physically weaker.

Evil is irrational and full of disorder; so it is impossible to find a logical explanation for its existence. There is no cause for it. Isaiah 14 describes the circumstances of Satan’s fall (not its cause), namely pride, and Ezekiel simply states that the anointed cherub was perfect/blameless from his creation “ ‘[until] iniquity was found’ ” in him (Ezek. 28:15, NKJV). By disconnecting himself from God, Satan broke his relationship with Him and consequently cut himself off from the only Source of life, which results in dying. All creatures, including angels in heaven and humans on earth, were created in total dependence upon God. Only by maintaining that love relationship and cultivating God’s presence is the risk of disobedience and rebellion eliminated and abundant life secured. Knowing God and His character, cherishing an appreciation of His goodness, and fostering a grateful attitude is the way forward.

There was no reason for rebellion in the perfect universe governed by love. No defect was present that would necessitate the improvement of God’s style of rulership. We may describe the circumstances, when and what happened, but we will never be able to find a justification for the rebellion, because no justification for it existed. God allowed the evil because He chose to create not automatons or robots but beings with a free will in order that they might love freely.

**No Dualism of Good and Evil**

We do not believe that the universe is ruled by two rival gods: on the one hand, the living God, who is the God of good; and on the other hand, Lucifer, the god of evil. This dualism is foreign to biblical revelation and not compatible with its teaching. The Scriptures attest that God created an exceptionally glorious and wise creature (“ ‘You were the model of perfection, full of wisdom and exquisite in beauty’ ” [Ezek. 28:12, NLT]) who later rebelled against God. Thus, Lucifer, God’s blameless creation, became Satan. The apostle John describes the adversary in the following terms: “that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world” (Rev. 12:9, ESV). Incredible and shocking thought! The one who was in the very presence of God, who was in the heavenly Eden in the celestial sanctuary, that very person rebelled against the loving God. His stunning actions against his Creator seem unreal: the creation dared to oppose his King and Commander-in-Chief.

And so something mysterious happened. The one who was created perfect, who was endowed with many talents, who held the highest position in heaven after Christ, turned against his Creator. The prophet Ezekiel states: “ ‘You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created, till unrighteousness was found in you’ ” (Ezek. 28:15, ESV). What a paradox! The guardian cherub, instead of protecting God’s order, put His law down. Remember that in the Bible one encounters cherubim in Ezekiel 1 and 10 (four living creatures are cherubim, [see Ezek. 10:15]), and they are closely associated with God, accompanying Him on His journey into and out of the Jerusalem temple (Ezek. 10:4, 5, NKJV; Ezek. 11:22, 23). In the tabernacle, guardian cherubim were in the Most Holy Place above the mercy seat, under which was located the Decalogue (Exod. 25:18–22). Cherubim symbolized the protection of God’s order and law. Lucifer, however, misused his privileged position to fight against God’s authority.

**Activities of Lucifer**

Ezekiel 28:15 states that in the anointed cherub was found “wickedness” (NIV) or “iniquity” (NKJV). The Hebrew term is _avelah_, meaning “injustice” or “unrighteousness.” The one who was perfect and who should guard the integrity of God’s law to secure heaven’s government was accusing God of not being good and right, namely, of being unjust. Very unfair accusations! The term “trade” (Ezek. 28:16, NKJV) is in Hebrew _rekulah_ and is derived from the root rakal, signifying “go about,” or “go from one another,” either for (1) trade or (2) gossip/slander. The context makes it evident that trade or business cannot be in mind here because it would be the only place in the Hebrew Bible where trading would be something sinful, and that does not make sense. Therefore, the word, rather, suggests that the guardian cherub was going around and gossiping about God, accusing Him of injustice, gossiping about His character and spreading lies. Lucifer sowed mistrust and unbelief and led others away from believing and following the loving God. Isaiah describes Lucifer’s motives in terms of pride. His hubris was so strong that he wanted to be equal to God, to sit on God’s throne, to make himself the king and uplift himself to the position of deity (Isa. 14:13). Such unbelievable hubris!

The prophet Isaiah describes Lucifer’s fall from heaven in the past tense (Isa. 14:12). Ezekiel states that he was driven “ ‘ “in disgrace from the mount of God” ’ ” and was expelled (Ezek. 28:16, NIV). Then Ezekiel reveals what happened in Lucifer’s heart, namely, how he sinned in his mind by cultivating pride. Carefully notice the nature of his five big “I” statements: (1) “ ‘_I_ will ascend to the heavens’ ”; (2) “ ‘_I_ will raise my throne above’ ”; (3) “ ‘_I_ will sit enthroned . . . on the utmost heights’ ”; (4) “ ‘_I_ will ascend above the tops of the clouds’ ”; and (5) “ ‘_I_ will make myself like the Most High’ ” (Isa. 14:13, 14, NIV, emphasis supplied). This self-exaltation in Lucifer’s heart is confirmed in Ezekiel 28:17: “ ‘ “Your heart became proud on account of your beauty, and you corrupted your wisdom because of your splendor” ’ ” (NIV). Finally, after this self-glorification, his complete destruction is presented in the future tense: “ ‘Yet you shall be brought down to Sheol [the grave], to the lowest depths of the Pit’ ” (Isa. 14:15, NKJV). The prophet Ezekiel concurs that the Lord will exterminate Lucifer, who became Satan, the adversary. His annihilation is so sure that Ezekiel uses the prophetic perfect tense to express that certainty: “ ‘ “I made a fire come out from you, and it consumed you, and I reduced you to ashes on the ground in the sight of all who were watching. . . . You have come to a horrible end and will be no more” ’ ” (Ezek. 28:18, 19, NIV).

**Only Dependence on God Brings Victory**

Remember, Satan could not be defeated by arguments or power, but only by someone “weaker” than he was. This is the reason for the Incarnation. In the book of Revelation, the dragon and different beasts were defeated by the Lamb, which is totally unheard of in the natural world. But Christ’s moral strength of love and truth conquered the world and was victorious over Satan and his powers. Jesus, who was born as a fragile human, defeated Satan by His purity, obedience, and total surrender to the Father. His sinless and unselfish life, His suffering on our behalf, and His victorious death on the cross condemned and destroyed Satan. It is now only a matter of time until Satan will be executed and the great controversy finished.

#### Part III: Life Application

Think about, and answer, the following questions:

1.	Regarding the origin of evil: Why did a loving and caring God allow the existence of evil? Is God responsible for the existence of evil? Explain. Why did the Lord decide in His infinite wisdom not to destroy Lucifer immediately when evil thoughts originated in his heart? Or why did God not destroy Lucifer right after he started secretly working against the divine government, thus preventing the rebellion from spreading broadly?

2.	Regarding the description of what happened in heaven: In what other terms can you describe the pride and actions of Lucifer? Who suffered most in this situation of rebellion? Could God have reacted differently to Satan in order to secure a lasting solution to the existence of evil? Give reasons for your answer. How was Satan defeated?

3.	Regarding overcoming pride: Lucifer’s story is a serious warning for us not to fall into similarly wrong activities and behavior. If pride is so deceitful, how can we stay on guard so that we do not fall into its deadly trap and be deceived by its “glory” and success? Explain how envy, selfishness, and pride go hand in hand in destroying meaningful relationships.

4.	Regarding changing someone’s behavior: How can you help proud people—who do not listen to reason, are possessed by self-exaltation and selfishness, and see only themselves and their own interests—to humble themselves? How can you be a peacemaker or an agent of reconciliation to transform a poisonous atmosphere around you and bring resolution amid tension, envy, misunderstanding, and accusations?