---
title:  The Relentless Pursuit of Grace
date:  22/09/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 23:11

Many times in our walk with Christ, we feel guilty because we fall short of who He is. Guilt comes as a result of the spiritual conviction that takes place after sin. The cycle of living for Christ, then falling short, and then asking for forgiveness happens more than we’d like to admit. However, God is relentless!

The Bible says that He pursues us relentlessly, even after our falls from grace. Aren’t you so thankful for Jesus? Someone that is omnipresent, all-knowing, and all-powerful cares enough to make each individual soul a priority. We matter to Him! More than that, He yearns for intimacy through relationship with Him.

In Acts 23:11, the Bible says, “That night the Lord came near and spoke to him” (VOICE). At that point, Paul was in a prison cell. He was thrown into prison for telling the truth about Christ to those who were not ready to receive it. However, in the midst of his despair, Christ met him where he was. God found him in one of the lowest places that we could ever be: in prison. Despite the fact that Paul, who was once Saul, had spent his time sending Christians to prison, Christ still forgave him. Christ not only forgave him, but He put him back in a position of right standing with God so that Paul could continue His mission by spreading the gospel throughout all the world.

Let’s take it even further. While serving God in spirit and in truth, Christ made His presence known. In God’s presence is the most powerful place that we can ever be, and it’s the place that we should all yearn to be, so that we can hear His voice and know which step to take next. What’s so awesome about God’s presence is its tangibility. God’s voice and His presence are tangible. This means that no matter where we go or where life takes us, we can call upon the Lord in the midst of the storm. This privilege is a gift and also a spiritual power over the enemy. This includes power over doubt, stress, anxiety, depression, and beyond. They fade at the first sight of His presence. As Christians, we will always have victory over the enemy because His presence makes us whole.

_Racquel M. Richards, Lawrenceville, Georgia, USA_