---
title:  Miracles, Consequences, and Mercies
date:  23/09/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 27:9–11, 20–26, 30–44; 28:1–10, 16, 30, 31

**Hope in the Storm (Acts 27:9–11, 20–26)**

In Acts 27, we meet Paul, his fellow prisoners, and a Roman centurion aboard a ship on its way to Rome. Although no fault has been found in him up to this point, Paul is traveling to Rome to be tried—again. He has not been accused of any crime, except proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ (Acts 24:25, 26; 26:31). As though this is not enough to keep Paul’s mind occupied, this journey takes place during one of the most dangerous times of the year to travel by sea.* Paul tries to warn the centurion in command of the ship of the danger that will lie ahead if they continue forward. They could lose not only the cargo on the ship but their lives as well (Acts 27:9–11). Despite Paul’s warning, the centurion decides to push forward.

The voyage continues, and the winds grow increasingly dangerous as they travel. After several days, they are forced to lighten the load of the ship, simply to stay alive (verses 18, 19). Eventually, the sun and the stars no longer light the sky. Darkness surrounds the men for many days (verse 20). They begin to lose hope that they will ever make it out alive. As far as the men are concerned, all hope is lost. It is at this point in the story that we see God do what He does best—bring hope to a seemingly hopeless situation.

In verses 21 through 26, Paul encourages the men with a message from an angel of God, saying, “ ‘ “Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted you all those who sail with you” ’ ” (verse 24, ESV). Although the centurion had ignored Paul’s warning, God had shown him and all of the men on the ship mercy for Paul’s sake. This is yet another example of how Paul was still being used by God, despite the mistake that led him to be in this situation to begin with (Acts 21:20–30). In the midst of the most hopeless situations—even the ones we put ourselves in—God is there to provide hope.

**Miracles Along the Journey (Acts 27:30–44)**

God continued to provide hope to Paul and the men of the ship throughout their journey to Rome. But even after they had been assured that they would not die, the sailors were once again fearful for their lives (Acts 27:33– 36, 41–44). Believing that they would not survive, they devised a plan to escape from the ship and kill the prisoners—so that no one would escape (verse 42). But because Paul had listened to God and shared the message of hope, the centurion did not allow the soldiers to carry out their plan. God used the centurion to save Paul and the other prisoners from being killed (verses 43, 44). The message that God had given Paul to share was not only one of hope but one of mercy. Because he was obedient, Paul’s life was spared. These miracles continued in Malta—a pit stop on their journey— where God provided them with safety, food, and a place to lodge (Acts 28:1–10). Even throughout the tumultuous journey, God continued to be with Paul and provide for each of his needs along the way.

**Arrival in Rome (Acts 28:16, 30, 31)**

After several months of traveling, Paul finally arrived safely in Rome and was granted permission to be on house arrest with only one soldier to guard him (verse 16). This was a miracle, in and of itself. However, this did not erase the fact that Paul was still a prisoner. God continued to use Him, but He did not relieve Paul of the consequences of his decision. Paul was not able to live freely as a Roman citizen typically would. He was not able to continue traveling the world to spread the gospel as he had hoped to (Romans 15:24). But even in the midst of his consequences, God showed him mercy in that he did not have to live in a jail cell during his two years of imprisonment (Acts 28:30). His life had been spared during the journey multiple times, and even while Paul was on house arrest, God continued to use him for His glory.

Consequences and mercy are not mutually exclusive. You can experience both at the same time. While Paul was living with the consequences of his decision, God showed him mercy time after time. This is also true for us today. Although God may not negate the consequences of our actions, He can continue to show us mercy and use us for His glory, just as He did Paul.

**Christ Our Hope (Acts 28:31)**

At first glance, in a grouping of miracles, mercies, and consequences, it may seem as though one of these things is not like the others. However, throughout the closing chapters of the book of Acts, we see all three of these elements at work cohesively. Although things did not go according to plan due to choices he had made, Paul shows us that messing up is not the end of the story. Although you may have to suffer the consequences of your choices, that does not make you ineligible for use by God. He can and will continue to work through you as long as you are a willing vessel, just as He did through Paul. Through Christ, we, too, are capable of performing miracles and spreading the gospel to all who are willing to hear it (verse 31).

**React**

`1. How has God provided hope in your “storms”?`

`2. Why does God allow us to endure the consequences of our actions if He has already forgiven us?`

_Joy Chikwekwe, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_