---
title:  From Test to Testimony
date:  24/09/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 27

Why listen to Paul, a prisoner? “The harbor of Fair Havens was but imperfectly protected from the wintry winds, and . . . the neighboring town, being so small, would afford little occupation for three hundred sailors and passengers during a stay of several months. Port Phenice, but thirty-four miles distant, had a well-sheltered harbor, and was in all other respects a far more desirable place in which to winter.

“They had not proceeded far, when a tempestuous wind, such as in that latitude often succeeds the blowing of the south wind, burst upon them with merciless fury. From the first moment that the wind struck the vessel, its condition was hopeless. So sudden was the blow, that the sailors had not a moment in which to prepare, and they could only leave the ship to the mercy of the tempest.”1

Paul could have brooded, but instead, he offered his help and support during the storm. “In this time of trial, he grasped by faith the arm of infinite power, his heart was stayed upon God, and amid the surrounding gloom his courage and nobility of soul shone forth with the brightest luster. While all around were looking only for swift destruction, this man of God, in the serenity of a blameless conscience, was pouring forth his earnest supplications in their behalf.”3

He offered comfort: “I exhort you to be of good cheer; for there shall be no loss of any man’s life among you, but of the ship. . . .

“At these words hope revived. Passengers and crew roused from their apathy, and put forth all possible exertion to save their lives. There was much yet to be done. Every effort within their power must be put forth to avert destruction; for God helps those only who help themselves.”4

What a testimony! Paul stood firmly with God during this trying time. He was able to be a witness to those who, otherwise, may not have been receptive before. Acts 27:44 informs us that they all escaped safely to dry land. This was possible only because of Paul’s connection with God and the crew’s receptiveness. The test became the testimony.

**React**

`1. What if Paul’s counsel had not been heeded in the account of Acts 27:21– 44? Think of a time when you were in a bind and either heeded or did not heed the Lord’s counsel. What was the verdict? Was it worth it?`

_Nicole Hamilton, Orlando, Florida, USA_