---
title:  Risky Friendship
date:  25/09/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 27:1–28:14

The annals of the nautical journey that Paul undertook as a prisoner in Acts 27 and 28 are the stuff of great adventure stories. The perilous voyage with tempestuous winds included episodic periods of being stranded on remote islands, a shipwreck, and encounters with the people of Melita—the plot twists and turns and resolves in a kind of happy ending when they finally arrive in Rome.

It’s almost easy to forget that the story is a prisoner’s journey, because Paul emerges as the heroic figure of the narrative. He was the man with wisdom (Acts 27:9–11), the one bearing a message of comfort (verses 21–26), the savior of many lives (verse 31), the spiritual leader (verses 35, 36), the one immune to a viper (Acts 28:3–6), and the healer (verse 8, 9). Paul was the star of the story.

Yet, there was another silent hero who made himself invisible in this remarkable story. Luke, whom Paul called the “beloved physician” (Col. 4:14), the meticulous writer of the account, was with Paul. Along with Aristarchus (Acts 27:2), they were Paul’s “fellow prisoners” on this journey, experiencing all the perils of the voyage.

Why was Luke there? Paul was a prisoner, but Luke was not. He did not have to go with Paul and expose himself to all those “unnecessary” dangers. Yet he went voluntarily, surviving near-death experiences many times over.

Why would someone inconvenience himself to this extent for another person? Even in his writing, he neglects to mention himself, although one can surmise that he must have contributed much in assisting Paul and ministering to the others on the ship. He makes Paul the hero of the story, even in the subject of healing and health, which was Luke’s department, during the episode with Publius’s sick father on Melita.

Acts 27 and 28 bears testimony not only of a detailed and meticulous writer but also of a loyal friend and a humble soul. Jesus said, “Greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one’s life for his friends” (John 15:13, NKJV). This reflection of Jesus was seen in Luke, the faithful companion who voluntarily laid down his life for Paul, his friend. Like Jesus, he made himself “of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant” (Phil. 2:7, NKJV).

What a blessing to have a friend so faithful. Paul must have been greatly blessed by Luke’s company and steadfastness. His journey would have been a much lonelier one otherwise.

**React**

`Do you have a steadfast friend who sticks closer than a brother or sister?`

`Perhaps even more important, are you a faithful friend? Is there anyone you would lay down your life for?`

_Josephine Elia Loi, Frederick, Colorado, USA_