---
title:  20/20 Faith
date:  26/09/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 27:21–26;Rom. 1:18–20

The character of Paul illustrates how God can use anyone to achieve His purpose. Even after his transformation from cruel oppressor to bold evangelist, Paul seems to cave under Roman opposition. However, in the middle of a storm, as a prisoner bound for Malta, an angel of God comes to him in a dream with a promise: “ ‘ “Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand trial before Caesar; and God has graciously given you the lives of all who sail with you” ’ ” (Acts 27:24, NIV). Paul knew he was not acquitted from persecution, but he now had faith that God was by his side and he would arrive alive.

We, too, have been told that we will meet persecution but that God will be by our side. “Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all” (Psalm 34:19, NKJV). It is often difficult to have faith in the midst of adversity because, as humans, our sight is limited to what we can physically see. Yet, we cannot use our confinement to five senses as an excuse; God’s invisible attributes are visible through His creation (Rom. 1:20). Faith isn’t dependence upon blind suppositions; rather, it is action upon solid evidence. How can we receive 20/20 vision of the invisible?

1. Know your eye doctor. Going out with someone you don’t know is called a blind date; trusting someone you don’t know is called blind faith. Both are dangerous. To experience the joy of faith, develop a relationship with the optimal eye doctor. He has promised that all who search for Him with their whole hearts will find Him (Jer. 29:13).

2. Remember what you have seen in the past. The effect of faith is its greatest testimony. In the midst of trials, how quickly we forget how God brought us through hardships; turned disaster into opportunity; or blessed us with health, family, and friends. Remembering God’s benevolent grace and forgiveness in our lives is our assurance that He will lead us in the future.

3. Act with clear sight. Only by acting in response to our belief will we experience faith. Trust is a process of development. Just as a job requires working, having faith requires acting. The Christian faith is both reasonable and justified. It is founded upon God’s consistent and reliable Word.

**React**

`Think back to a time of hardship or struggle. How did God bring you through? For what decision in your life are you waiting for clear evidence on which to act?`

_Natalie Hamilton, Dayton, Tennessee, USA_