---
title:  Living on Purpose Is Not for the Few—but for the Few Who Choose
date:  27/09/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 28:24–31

I really admire Paul’s courage and faith in God to see him through his life, and I appreciate the great example he is to us of truly living out the gospel message. Paul had a willingness to speak the message of hope, no matter his personal circumstances; and we all know many of them were not necessarily peachy. But then again, how could he possibly fear when he was personally comforted by an angel of God with the words, “ ‘ “Do not be afraid, Paul; you must stand before Caesar” ’ ” (Acts 27:24, ESV)?

In Acts 28:17–22, we are given an account of Paul speaking to the people and calling them out on their apathy and complacency through the message of Isaiah the prophet. How would you like to be associated with the statement, “ ‘ “You will be ever hearing but never understanding; you will be ever seeing but never perceiving” ’ ” (verse 26, NIV)? Our hearts truly have become calloused, and, unfortunately, it seems that the sins of complacency and apathy are widely accepted as normal in our church circles.

The book of Acts is truly inspiring, because in it we can feel the fire and passion of God’s faithful followers truly living out the Great Commission and weaving it into their daily lives. There was a certain presence about them—you knew when someone was a follower of Jesus. But I ask you, today, could someone distinguish you from the masses of worldly people who walk on this earth? In the past few years, my heart has been stirred toward a strong conviction that we, as God’s people, are in need of a revival of our purpose. We truly need to ask ourselves, “Why are we here?” and to come to an awareness that most of us live very comfortable lives.

We fear leaving our comfort zone, and yet at the end of our comfort zone is where Christ can begin to do His greatest work, in us and through us. “I am sure of this, that He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ” (Phil. 1:6, ESV). The promise is there—but we need to take the step of faith to walk into it and live according to our purpose, choosing daily to continue to have victory and fulfill our role on this earth as we journey to the Promised Land.

**React**

`In what areas of your life do you feel God is asking you to leave your comfort zone and walk into your purpose?`

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_