---
title:  Fear Not
date:  28/09/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 27:33–44

**Conclude**

When God tells us something will happen, He keeps His Word. Even though Paul did not always experience what he expected, he still moved forward according to God’s Word. Knowing God is with us helps us move on in spite of our fears. Paul was able to live such an incredible life and thrive amid the harrowing experiences he went through because he believed and obeyed the Word of God. When God calls us to talk to someone about Him, act on His Word, or preach the gospel, He tells us not to be afraid because His presence is with us.

**Consider**

- Reading Acts 27 and 28 and praying and reflecting on the life of Paul. Ask God what lessons He wants to teach you from these passages.

- Doing a biblical word study on the word fear and looking at the context around each verse on fear.

- Drawing or painting a picture of what comes to your mind when you hear the word fear. Then draw or paint a picture of what you think the opposite of fear is. Contrast the two.

- Listening to the song “Here I Am, Lord,” composed by Daniel L. Schutte, and the hymn, “I’ll Go Where You Want Me to Go.” As you listen to the words, ask yourself whether you are willing to go and serve wherever God calls you.

- Writing a prayer in a prayer journal to God and asking Him who He would have you to witness to in your life.

- Going canvassing in your local conference’s summer canvassing program.

**Connect**

Matthew 28:18–20; Luke 10:17–20; Acts 18:9, 10.

Ellen White, Conflict and Courage, pp. 341, 354; The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 42, “The Voyage and Shipwreck,” and chapter 43, “In Rome.”

David Platt, Radical: Taking Back Your Faith From the American Dream.

_Jaime Martin, Loma Linda, California, USA_