---
title:  inGest
date:   29/06/2026
---

### A Tale of Two Responses

After Lazarus’ resurrection, we see two very different responses—one from the crowds and followers of Jesus and another from the religious leaders. The religious leaders first gathered to address their concerns about the influence they were losing. This is where Caiaphas tried to persuade them not to worry, insisting there was an obvious solution—one he dared to cloak in divine purpose: _We will kill Him, and our problem will be solved._ Caiaphas believed this act would unify God’s people, which turned out to be true, but in a very different way than he expected. Who knew you could be so right and yet so wrong?

The other response came from the crowds, whose anticipation built as they wondered where Jesus was and whether He would attend the Passover feast. Later, when Jesus arrived in Jerusalem, they welcomed Him with a grand celebration. His triumphal entry drew even more attention, with cries of “Hosanna! ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the LORD!’ The King of Israel!” (John 12:13). You get a sense that the crowds and followers of Jesus believed they were gaining something big: a new King. This is also true, but not in the way they expected, either.

These two different groups were processing the events of Jesus’ life in two very different ways. One group wanted to destroy Jesus, the other to crown Him king. Yet in the end, both were driven by selfish ambition and self-preservation. Both were wrong because neither one listened to what Jesus actually said about His purpose. To borrow language from Ellen G. White: “They were looking for a Messiah who had not been promised.”<sup>1</sup>

If the religious leaders had listened, they wouldn’t have felt so threatened by His presence—He was the Messiah they had been looking for. If the people had listened, they wouldn’t have placed all their expectations on earthly greatness and restoration. Instead, they would have longed for the kingdom of God to be established.

Clearly, these two stories contain a warning for us. If we aren’t listening to what Jesus is actually saying, we can find ourselves working against His purposes while assuming we’re in harmony with His will.

**Questions to consider:**

`Does it surprise you that the religious leaders, well-informed Bible students, were capable of plotting the death of Jesus? What warning does this give us as Bible students?`

`When we consider the consequences of acknowledging who Jesus is (and the fact that we may need to let certain things go), is it possible that we might ultimately reject Him? How can we prevent that from happening?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 218.