---
title:  inVite
date:   02/07/2026
---

### It’s Coming

At Lazarus’ resurrection, Jesus displayed so¬me intense emotions. Many have speculated about why He felt so strongly at that time. Some cite His deep love for Lazarus and his family; others suggest that since Jesus knew He would raise Lazarus, His tears must have been for something else, such as the people’s unbelief. Both are reasonable explanations to help us understand His heightened emotions, but we must also realize that Jesus knew this miracle would ultimately result in His own death, and this knowledge must have weighed heavily on Him.

Later, through the hospitality of Lazarus and his family and friends, Jesus had the opportunity to relax and be refreshed, even to celebrate. Mary’s incredibly meaningful gift strengthened and encouraged Him—not so much the oil itself, but what the oil represented. Someone understood and appreciated what He was about to go through.

In the middle of this deeply meaningful interaction with Mary, Simon and Judas ruined the moment by criticizing and condemning the guiltless Mary. This broke Jesus’ heart, and His sense of justice led Him to rebuke and instruct those who antagonized Mary. Christ’s rebuke was not well accepted by Judas who would soon determine to betray Jesus into the hands of the religious leaders. We can’t overlook the fact that Jesus here began to feel the ache of having one of His disciples turn his back on Him. In His rebuke of Judas, Jesus spoke in clear language about His impending death. However, the disciples didn’t give much indication that they understood what was about to happen.

The next day, Jesus was reminded that the crowds were ready to crown Him king. His triumphal entry into Jerusalem must have filled Him with mixed emotions. While it was probably nice to receive appreciation from the people, He knew that He would soon dash their hopes and that many of them would call for His death before the week was over.

Jesus openly bared His heart when Philip and Andrew brought the Greeks to Him. Speaking in parables, Jesus revealed that He had to die if His work was to bear fruit (John 12:23, 24). Feeling the weight of the impending events, He cried out, “My soul is troubled” (John 12:27). This foreshadowed the distressed language He used in Gethsemane. Continuing, He said, in essence, “I’m not asking to be saved from this hour. This is what I came for.” As He submitted to His Father’s will, God spoke to Him, affirming Him (John 12:28). While it must have greatly encouraged and strengthened Jesus, it was also the last time He heard the Father’s audible voice until after the Resurrection.

**Questions to consider:**

`How has this week’s study helped you better appreciate the weight Jesus wrestled with, even before Gethsemane? How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`