---
title:  inQuire
date:   04/07/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**People respond:**

1. How did Israel’s religious leaders react to Lazarus’ resurrection? John 11:47–54
2. In contrast, how did the crowds respond the next day? John 12:12–19
3. How were the two responses different, and how were they similar?
4. How did Jesus challenge both responses with His true purpose? John 12:23–26

`Personal reflection: Have you ever felt the pressure of other people’s expectations for your life? Did those expectations contradict what you clearly knew God was calling you to do? Discuss what the process felt like and how you handled it.`

**Listening to Jesus:**

1. How was Mary’s response more in tune with impending events? John 12:1–8
2. Why is it important to make sure we are actually hearing what Jesus is saying and not just what we want to hear? Consider the disciples in Mark 9:30–32.

`Personal reflection: Have you ever been criticized by Christians for giving Jesus the best you can, like Mary did? How did that feel, and how did God encourage and help you through it?`

**Christ’s purpose:**

1. Jesus taught that in order for wheat to produce more grain, it first has to die. What did He mean? What does that mean for us today? John 12:24
2. What did Christ declare was His purpose? What’s the significance of this statement? John 12:27

`Personal reflection: Have you ever heard God’s voice in your life, whether audibly or simply a sense of His encouragement? Discuss what hearing from Him did for you.`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- The crowds and religious leaders had opposite reactions to Lazarus’ resurrection, yet the outcome of both was similar because both had misplaced expectations.
- When listening to Jesus, it’s important to hear what He’s actually saying instead of what we want Him to say.
- The cross was not a surprise for Jesus. He knew what was coming and went forward anyway because of His great love for us.