---
title: The Shining Light
date: 05/10/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 2**

**The Shining Light**

After gathering His first disciples (John 1:35–51), Jesus embarked on His public ministry. John devoted three chapters to Jesus’ actions and their results in this initial stage of ministry (chaps. 2–4). The upcoming weeks will deepen our appreciation for Jesus’ opening work. John did not discuss Jesus’ temptations in the wilderness as recorded in the synoptic Gospels (Matthew, Mark, and Luke), but he did stress the conflict Jesus faced using scenes that portray light versus darkness. In His ministry, Jesus shines light into darkened hearts, aiming to move them from unbelief to belief.

In this lesson, we follow Jesus as He moves into His wider ministry. John included two incidents that are unique to his account: a wedding and the first cleansing of the temple. The first occurred in Cana, a small Galilean village. This was Jesus’ home region, and He would have been well known there. The second was back in Jerusalem. As we read, it’s helpful to keep in mind the larger geography, understanding that Jesus would have walked long distances regularly.

What may surprise us is the way Jesus began His ministry. Compared with the other Gospels, John recorded relatively few of Jesus’ miracles. This chapter recounts Jesus’ first miracle (John 2:1–11), which is not found in any other Gospel. It took place in a rather ordinary setting: a wedding. During this familiar scene, Jesus performed His first miracle, or sign. Some feel this miracle is contrived, trivial, and unnecessary. However, through close study, we find that this miracle is connected to the greater themes in John. Specifically, the light is shining into the darkness (1:5), and abundant grace is given to each of us.

#### inScribe

Read John 2 from a different translation than you regularly use. Write out verses 1–12. Notice the flow of the story. Create an outline or visual depiction of the passage.

` `