---
title: The First Sign
date: 06/10/2024
---

#### inGest

Several scholars contend that this account is ahistorical. They suggest that the wine did run out, but a joke was made about the water being the “best wine.” Others see a reflection of Dionysus, the Greek god of winemaking. This narrow perspective misses John’s purpose in recounting the miracle and Jesus’ intention in performing it. The natural flow and simplicity in its telling point to its historicity. It’s hard to see how a joke could have been the basis for the disciples’ faith (John 2:11). That idea doesn’t fit John’s narrative, either, which focuses on several signs Jesus performed. John concluded this miracle by telling us it revealed Jesus’ glory.

The story naturally falls into four distinct parts: first is the setting (vv. 1, 2), then the need (vv. 3–5), the miracle (vv. 6–10), and the response (vv. 10–12). Read the passage again and dwell on each section. Running out of wine would have caused offense, but it was hardly a genuine need. The extra wine would have only provided additional pleasure for the guests and relieved the host from embarrassment. What, then, were Jesus’ motives for His actions?

As we consider this question, notice the way the miracle happens. We read about the preparation for it (vv. 6, 7), and we see its results (vv. 8–10). The servants poured water in but drew (unfermented) wine out. However, nobody actually sees the miracle. The people see its impact but cannot tell how it happened. God often works miracles in ways that we cannot see the miracle itself but we see the result of it.

Jesus’ response to His mother’s request is noteworthy. In that culture, addressing her as “woman” was not considered offensive (see Matt. 15:28; Luke 22:57; John 4:21; 19:26). The Greek form indicates respect or affection. However, this term was not typically used for one’s mother. This indicates the initiation of a new relationship. Jesus also demonstrated that He will not act merely to fulfill human requests, but only when His “hour has... come” (v. 4), or only when the time is right.

John used “hour” in three different ways. Sometimes it simply refers to a time of day (4:6). Other times, it designates the entrance of God’s kingdom at the end of the world (5:25, 28). The third use draws our attention to the crucifixion, death, and resurrection of Christ (7:30; 8:20; 12:23–33; 13:1). At the beginning of His ministry, Jesus looked ahead to its completion. The first miracle points to the greatest act of self-sacrifice creation will ever know.

This foreshadowing is reflected in John’s statement that Jesus manifested His glory at the wedding (2:11). Glory is an important theme in this book (1:14; 12:27, 28; 17:1–4). In what way can Jesus’ death be considered glorious? Glory relates to a revelation—an unfolding of God’s character and presence in this world (Exod. 24:15–18; 34:29–35; 40:34–38). In the abundant gift of the wine, we see God’s desire and willingness to bless our lives. This miracle, far from being trivial, demonstrates His unlimited supply of grace (John 1:16).

#### Journal:

`Jesus’ first miracle can seem somewhat mundane or perhaps like a matter of convenience. How has God helped you with the small things in life?`

`What’s the significance of Jesus choosing a simple setting to first reveal His glory?`