---
title: Cleansing the Temple
date: 07/10/2024
---

#### inTerpret

By referring to Jesus’ miraculous works as “signs,” John indicated that these acts are more than just stunning events. They have a purpose; they are intended to build belief in Christ (John 2:11, 23). Sometimes we think, “If I could see just one of these signs, I would be steadfast in my faith.” However, John showed how this is not always the case.

John 2:13–25 describes Jesus’ first cleansing of the temple. Verse 12 tells us Jesus traveled for a time after the wedding, and verse 13 tells us He went to Jerusalem for the Passover. The other Gospel writers each described one Passover during Jesus’ years of ministry, but John depicted at least three. The synoptic authors described a cleansing of the temple at the end of Jesus’ ministry. In contrast, John recounted a cleansing at the beginning. As this account is unique to John and contains significant differences in wording and actions, we understand that Christ cleansed the temple twice. The first cleansing announced the beginning of His ministry and the second brought His ministry to a close.

Because of the long distances traveled during Passover, most pilgrims couldn’t bring their own sacrificial animals. They had to buy them in Jerusalem. A market for that purpose was established in the temple’s outer court. Additionally, temple fees could only be paid with the temple’s currency, giving rise to the work of money changers. Two results followed Jesus’ actions: First, Jesus’ demand to move the market made it more difficult for pilgrims to conduct their Passover preparations. Second, He made it easier for the contrite to access the spiritual experience awaiting them in the holy setting.

Jesus received mixed responses to His actions. The religious leaders demanded a sign, which could be seen as a reasonable requirement. Deuteronomy 13:1–5 and 18:20–22 both emphasize the importance of a true prophet making accurate predictions as a non-negotiable sign that God has called the prophet. The Jews were eager for an impressive miracle, but instead, Jesus made a claim that could be tested only in the future (John 2:19). The disciples later remembered and understood this event in light of Jesus’ death and resurrection. They didn’t witness the sign immediately, but their faith was strengthened when it was fulfilled. Many did believe in Jesus as they saw His signs (2:23), but most turned away (6:60–62, 66). One of John’s main motives in writing the Gospel was to lead His readers, including us, to believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God (20:30, 31).

For the Jews living in Jesus’ time, the temple in Jerusalem symbolized the hope and greatness of Israel. In John 2:19, Jesus spoke metaphorically, comparing His body to the temple. As the Word incarnate, Jesus is the new temple. He reveals God dwelling among humanity. As we retell and rethink Jesus’ stories, we interact with not only the written word but also the Word made flesh. Jesus is revealed to us in new and fresh ways.

#### Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does a confrontational Jesus fit with your view of His character? Do you need to adjust your view?`