---
title: Irony and Misunderstanding
date: 09/10/2024
---

#### inVite

The stories of turning water to wine and cleansing the temple teach several lessons that impact our lives today. Both narratives contain subtle irony and misunderstandings. At the wedding in Cana, something in Jesus’ words or body language must have tipped His listeners off to His true intentions—what would normally be interpreted as a “no” (John 2:4) was understood as a “yes” (2:5).

The master of ceremonies didn’t know where the extra wine came from. Jesus hadn’t transformed water into wine for outward display. (Still, the servants must have been amazed.) The master of ceremonies shared his consternation over this etiquette transgression with the host (2:10). We can imagine the host being surprised as well. From our perspective, having read the passage, we know that more than just a breach of etiquette had occurred. We know the true source of the wine while those involved did not. We also recognize that, in a sense, Jesus acted as the host of the wedding. He provided all that is needed and much more. Similarly, the grace He provides for the world is more than sufficient to fulfill all our needs (Rom. 5:20, 21; Heb. 4:16).

Just after Jesus cleansed the temple, His words were mistakenly applied to the temple building (John 2:18–21). Those engaged in conversation with Him focused on how the temple was constructed, forming the basis of their critique of Jesus. They misunderstood Jesus’ words and didn’t realize that He was actually referring to His body as the temple. (John frequently gave his readers insights that the people in the Gospel didn’t have.) Jesus’ response referenced the demand for signs. Jesus foreshadowed that the greatest sign would be His death, burial, and resurrection. However, another, more personal lesson is at work here. In verse 22, from his vantage point after the resurrection, John explained the deeper meaning of this exchange. His experience was much like ours as we read the Gospel in the twenty-first century. We can all reflect on Christ’s life after His resurrection. Simply telling the narrative of Christ’s life wasn’t enough for John. He was predominately concerned with how past events become alive in the believer’s life. As we remember and retell the story of Christ, we engage with the Word made flesh, the revelation of God in humanity.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 2 again and look for where Jesus is.

`Can you think of an experience when a looming disaster unexpectedly turned into a time of plenty?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`