---
title:  The Gifts of the Spirit
date:   18/02/2017
---

### The Gifts of the Spirit

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
1 Corinthians 12:4–7, 11; Ephesians 4:7; 1 Corinthians 12:14–31; Romans 12:3–8; 1 John 4:1–3. 

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “There are different kinds of gifts. But they are all given by the same Spirit. There are different ways to serve. But they all come from the same Lord. There are different ways to work. But the same God makes it possible for all of us to have all those different things” (1 Corinthians 12:4–6, NIrV).

A MAN WENT AWAY ON A LONG BUSINESS TRIP. He left his son in charge of running his business. The man told his son he wanted him to do a special job while he was away. But the son soon realized that his father had not given him the money and tools necessary to do the job. Frustrated, the son was forced to leave the work undone (not done). 

In much the same way, Jesus left His disciples and went to be with His Father in heaven. He gave His disciples a special work to do. He told them to preach the good news of the gospel to the world. But Jesus did not leave His disciples without help. Jesus made it possible for His disciples to do what He asked. He asked them to preach the good news in His name and through the power and help of the Holy Spirit. We must remember that Christ gives us the spiritual gifts through the Holy Spirit. And Christ gives us the gifts to build up His church.

This week we will study how the Holy Spirit is the Supreme Giver of God’s remarkable gifts. We also will look at the difference between the fruit of the Spirit and the gifts of the Spirit.