---
title:  THE FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT AND THE GIFTS
date:   19/02/2017
---

### THE FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT AND THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT

(1 Corinthians 12:4–7, 11)

The fruit of the Spirit and the gifts of the Spirit have the same Author (God). But they are not the same. No one is required to show that they have been given a gift of the Spirit. But every Christian should show the fruit of the Spirit. Spiritual gifts do not mean that a person is spiritual. But the fruit of the Spirit does. There is only one fruit. There are many spiritual gifts. And some gifts are greater than others. 

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:4–7, 11. What is the basic meaning of Paul’s teaching in these verses?` 

God designed all parts of the fruit of the Spirit to be seen in the lives of His followers. But not every believer has the same gift or gifts. There is no law that says everyone should have the same gift, such as speaking in tongues (languages). Instead, God gives His believers different gifts as He chooses. And God gives us the gifts of the Spirit so that we may serve others. We are to use the gifts to build up His church. God does not give us the gifts of the Spirit so that we may use them for our own pleasure and glory. Instead, He gives us these gifts to help His cause move forward.  

Spiritual gifts, however, are worthless (without worth) without the fruit of the Spirit. It is interesting that Paul often mentions love when he writes about spiritual gifts. For example, Paul talks about the gifts in 1 Corinthians 12. Right after that, he describes the highest form of love, in chapter 13. Ephesians 4:11–13 mentions the gifts God gave to the church, and why. Then love is mentioned in verses 15 and 16. Paul mentions the gifts of the Spirit in Romans 12:3–8. Then he speaks about love in verses 9 and 10. 

The gifts are gifts of grace. In other words, they are gifts of love. God gives us the gifts out of love. He gives them to us to share His love with others. This means that we must love others. Then we will show the love of God to them. 

Our God is loving and all-knowing. He gives His people what is needed to do what He asks them to do. Maybe that is why love is the greatest gift of all (1 Corinthians 13:13).

`Why is love so important to all that we do as Christians? How does love give power to our witness?`