---
title:  GOD IS THE SUPREME GIVER OF THE SPIRITUAL GIFTS
date:   20/02/2017
---

### GOD IS THE SUPREME GIVER OF THE SPIRITUAL GIFTS

(Ephesians 4:7)

We do not decide what gifts we have. The Greek word for the gifts of the Spirit is charismata. This word tells us that the gifts of the Spirit are gifts of grace (mercy and forgiveness). We do not earn them by who we are or by anything we have done. God freely gives them to us out of love. 

`Read Ephesians 4:7. We often think of the Holy Spirit as the One who gives spiritual gifts. But the apostle (leader; teacher) Paul also connects Jesus Christ with the giving of the gifts. How is Jesus involved in the giving of the gifts?` 

Paul says the grace of Christ made it possible to give us spiritual gifts. But the Holy Spirit is the one who gives them to church members. We must accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. We must believe in Him. Then the Holy Spirit will give us spiritual gifts “just as he decides” (1 Corinthians 12:11, NIrV). So, God alone decides what gifts we are to receive. 

Natural ability is not a spiritual gift. Spiritual gifts are not the same as natural talents developed through long and hard study. Many non-Christians are blessed with such God-given talents. In the end, “every good and perfect gift is from God” (James 1:17, NIrV). God gives us the gifts of His Spirit to bless the lives of others and to build up His church.

`What does Paul tell his readers in 1 Corinthians 12:14–31 about the giving of the gifts? Why is this truth so important for understanding how spiritual gifts are meant to be used in the church?`

The Holy Spirit is the one who gives us the gifts. He gives them to us according to (in agreement with) His wisdom and desire. He loves us and knows best how we can serve Him. So we do not need to be jealous of others and their gifts. To envy other gifts is a sign of not being grateful toward God for the gifts that we have. It is a sign that we doubt God’s wisdom in the gifts He has given.

`What gifts has God given to members of your church? What message can you take away from the fact that different people have different gifts?`