---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   21/02/2017
---

#### THE PURPOSE OF THE SPIRITUAL GIFTS

(Romans 12:3–8)

`Read Romans 12:3–8 and Ephesians 4:8–12. In these verses, what is the purpose of the spiritual gifts that God gives us?`

God clearly gave us spiritual gifts to help us to serve Him and to do His work. Having spiritual gifts does not wash away our sins or make us holy. Only Jesus can do that. Spiritual gifts are not special tricks or miracles from God. He does not give them to us to satisfy our desire for miracles. They are not meant to “cure” our boredom. 

Often, though, we do think that the gifts of the Holy Spirit were given to fill our spiritual needs. Or we think that they were meant to give us power in our walk with God. This kind of thinking results in a view of the gifts of the Holy Spirit that is more about the Christian than it is about Christ. This mindset (thinking) is more focused on (to put our attention on) us than on God. But we must keep God at the center of our understanding of the spiritual gifts. The gifts God gives fulfill (complete) many divine purposes. They are given to help the church join together as one in Christ. The gifts are meant for building up the church (Ephesians 4:12–16). 

The gifts, however, never are given to please us. They are to teach others (1 Peter 4:10; 1 Corinthians 14:12, 26). They are given to bring spiritual profit to the church. They are meant to improve the minds and characters (thoughts; feelings; actions) of believers. They are to instruct the whole church. In other words, God’s gifts are supposed to bring us all together as one in the church. 

Also, too often we think that spiritual gifts are only talents and abilities that we receive from God. Talents are involved in spiritual gifts. But we should keep in mind that when the Holy Spirit gives us a gift, He also always gives a special job or work that goes along with the gift (1 Peter 4:10). So, we might say that spiritual gifts are certain abilities to do work for God. 

`Why do you think a main purpose of the gifts is to bring the church together as one in heart and mind? How can believers with different gifts be joined together as one in the church? What needs to take place so that different gifts in the church are a blessing and not a source of separation and division?`
