---
title:  THE GIFTS, THEN AND NOW
date:   22/02/2017
---

### THE GIFTS, THEN AND NOW 

(1 Corinthians 14:1)

`First read 1 Corinthians 14:1. Then compare the different lists of gifts in 1 Corinthians 12:7–11, 27–31; Romans 12:3–8; and Ephesians 4:11, 12. Were those gifts given only to the New Testament believers? Why are the gifts still available today?` 

There are some Christians who think that the spiritual gifts mentioned in the New Testament were limited to the times of Jesus and the apostles (teachers and leaders). They argue that the special spiritual gifts are no longer present in the church. They believe that the gifts stopped being available after the first apostles died. These Christians who think this way use 1 Corinthians 13:10 to support their view. In this verse, the apostle Paul says, “But when what is complete comes, the things that are not complete will pass away” (NIrV). Yes, there will be a time when the gifts will stop. But they will stop only when what is complete has come. That is, when Jesus comes again. 

The Bible tells us that the spiritual gifts are given to build up the church (1 Corinthians 12:28). Paul tells believers to “want the gifts that the Holy Spirit gives” (1 Corinthians 14:1, NIrV). These gifts are necessary to the well-being of the church. There is no proof from the Bible that says that God has stopped giving us the gifts or gotten rid of them in the church. So, we have to believe that He wants them to remain until the church has completed its work. That time will be when Christ comes again. 

God will not leave the members of the church without help in completing this work. But the gifts of the Spirit will never cause the Bible to be set aside. They will never fill the same place as the Bible. Instead, they are part of God’s Bible promise to help all believers to be ready to finish God’s work. The gifts help believers to build up the body of Christ and to prepare the world for the soon coming of Jesus.

`Read Ephesians 4:11–13. Pay close attention to verse 13. It says, “[God’s giving of gifts] will continue until we all become one in the faith. We will also become one in the knowledge of God’s Son. Then we will be grown up in the faith. We will receive everything that Christ has for us” (NIrV). What do these verses tell us about our need for the gifts in the church right now?`

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **compare**—to show how two or more things are the same or different.