---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE GIFT OF DISCERNMENT
date:   23/02/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE GIFT OF DISCERNMENT

(1 John 4:1–3)

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:10; 1 Corinthians 14:29; and 1 John 4:1–3. In these verses, why is the gift of discernment important?` 

There are true spiritual gifts present in the church. At the same time, the Bible also warns us not to believe every spirit.  

We are warned that evil spirits or demons will try to mislead the church. Satan will try to counterfeit God’s true gifts. 

Today, many accept the truth that there is a need for spiritual gifts in the church. But they have placed too much importance on some spiritual gifts over other gifts. For example, they have placed too much importance on special signs and wonders. It is interesting that Paul lists the gift of discernment right after he mentions both the gift of “the power to do miracles” and the “ability to prophesy [tell the future]” and also lists the gifts before he mentions “the ability to speak in different kinds of languages” (1 Corinthians 12:10, NIrV).

God wishes to keep His church pure in truth and one in faith. He wishes to safeguard His members from following false prophets (special messengers). He wants to keep believers from being tricked by false signs and miracles. So God gives the church the gift of discernment. A true knowledge of God’s Word (the Bible) is needed to discern (know) if the spirit speaking is from heaven or is an evil spirit. Also, living a faithful life is an important part of discerning (knowing) what is from God. But the Bible is the foundation for having and practicing the gift of discernment. We must test everything by the Word. Such testing is the only way we can know for sure that what we are hearing or seeing is truly from the Lord or, instead, from somewhere else.

“Suppose a man makes the working of miracles the test of his faith. Then he soon will find that Satan can trick him by doing all kinds of miracles that will seem to be true miracles from God. . . . Do not lose any opportunity to search for the Lord with all the heart and mind and soul. We must accept the truth in love. If we do not, we may be among those people who will see the miracles done by Satan in these last days and believe them. Many strange things will appear as wonderful miracles. But these ‘miracles’ are false. They come from the father of lies [Satan]. . . . Men who are under the power of evil spirits will work miracles.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, volume 2, pages 52, 53.


#### DEFINITIONS

2. **discernment**—the ability to see and understand people, things, or situations clearly and intelligently. Discernment is a spiritual gift. It helps a person to tell the difference between a message or miracle that comes from God and what is false and does not come from Him.