---
title:  The Wedding at Cana
date:  29/09/2024
---

`Read John 2:1–11. What sign did Jesus do at Cana, and how did this help His disciples in coming to believe in Him?`

Seeing Jesus perform the miracle of changing the water into wine provided evidence in favor of the disciples’ decision to follow Jesus. How could it not have been a powerful sign pointing to Him as being someone from God? (They probably were not yet ready to understand that He was God.)

Moses was the leader of the Israelites, and he brought Israel out of Egypt by many “signs and wonders” (Deut. 6:22, Deut. 26:8, NKJV). He was the one whom God used to free Israel from the Egyptians. (He was, in a sense, their “savior.”)

God prophesied through Moses that a prophet would come who was like Moses. God asked Israel to hear Him (Deut. 18:15, Matt. 17:5, Acts 7:37). That “prophet” was Jesus and, in John 2, Jesus performed His first sign, which itself pointed back to the deliverance of the children of Israel from Egypt.

The river Nile was a key resource and a deity for the Egyptians. One of the plagues was directed at the river—the changing of its waters to blood. At Cana, Jesus performed a similar miracle but, instead of turning water into blood, He turned it into wine.

The water came from six water pots used for purification purposes in Jewish rituals, linking the miracle even more closely to biblical themes of salvation. By recounting the incident of changing the water to wine, and thus referring back to the Exodus, John was pointing to Jesus as our Deliverer.

What did the master of the feast think of the unfermented wine that Jesus provided? He was indeed surprised by the quality of the drink and, not knowing the miracle that Jesus had performed there, thought that they had saved the best for last.

The Greek term _oinos_ is used both for fresh and fermented grape juice (see The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Dictionary, p. 1177). Ellen G. White states that the juice produced by the miracle was not alcoholic (see “At the Marriage Feast,” The Desire of Ages, p. 149). No doubt, those who knew what happened were astonished at what had taken place.

`What are your reasons for following Jesus? (We have been given many, haven’t we?)`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Jesus did not begin His ministry by some great work before the Sanhedrin at Jerusalem. At a household gathering in a little Galilean village His power was put forth to add to the joy of a wedding feast. Thus He showed His sympathy with men, and His desire to minister to their happiness. In the wilderness of temptation He Himself had drunk the cup of woe. He came forth to give to men the cup of blessing, by His benediction to hallow the relations of human life. . . .\
It was to honor Mary’s trust, and to strengthen the faith of His disciples, that the first miracle was performed. The disciples were to encounter many and great temptations to unbelief. To them the prophecies had made it clear beyond all controversy that Jesus was the Messiah. They looked for the religious leaders to receive Him with confidence even greater than their own. They declared among the people the wonderful works of Christ and their own confidence in His mission, but they were amazed and bitterly disappointed by the unbelief, the deep-seated prejudice, and the enmity to Jesus, displayed by the priests and rabbis. The Saviour’s early miracles strengthened the disciples to stand against this opposition.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 144, 147.

When the time had fully come, the miracle wrought by Christ was recognized. As soon as the ruler of the feast put the goblet to his lips and tasted the wine, he looked up with glad surprise. The wine was superior to any he had ever before drunk. And it was unfermented wine. He said to the bridegroom, “Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the good wine until now” (verse 10).\
Christ did not approach the jars, or touch the water; He simply looked upon the water, and it became the pure juice of the grape, clarified and refined. What effect did this miracle have?—“His disciples believed on him” (verse 11). . . . By this miracle Christ also gave evidence of His mercy and compassion. He showed that He had regard for the necessities of those who followed Him to hear His words of knowledge and wisdom.—This Day with God, p. 366.

The Lord has promised to give light to those who seek him with the whole heart. If we will but wait patiently and prayerfully upon God, and not follow our own impetuous plans, he will guide our decisions, and open many doors of hope and labor. The great General of armies will lead in every battle for the advancement of his cause. He will be the guide of his people in the perilous conflicts in which they have to engage, if [they] . . . will do their appointed work, and listen to the voice which says, “This is the way, walk ye in it;” “They that follow me shall not walk in darkness.” What a great comfort this promise should be to us! We may walk in the light as he is in the light. . . . Men may follow many kinds of lights, but there is only one Light that it will be safe for them to follow. Be sure that you are following Jesus whithersoever he goeth.—Special Testimonies to Ministers and Workers, no. 3, p. 44.