---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/10/2024
---

“Jesus had given him [the disabled man] no assurance of divine help. The man might have stopped to doubt, and lost his one chance of healing. But he believed Christ’s word, and in acting upon it he received strength.

“Through the same faith we may receive spiritual healing. By sin we have been severed from the life of God. Our souls are palsied. Of ourselves we are no more capable of living a holy life than was the impotent man capable of walking. . . . Let these desponding, struggling ones look up. The Saviour is bending over the purchase of His blood, saying with inexpressible tenderness and pity, ‘Wilt thou be made whole?’ He bids you arise in health and peace. Do not wait to feel that you are made whole. Believe His word, and it will be fulfilled. Put your will on the side of Christ. Will to serve Him, and in acting upon His word you will receive strength. Whatever may be the evil practice, the master passion which through long indulgence binds both soul and body, Christ is able and longs to deliver. He will impart life to the soul that is ‘dead in trespasses.’ Eph. 2:1. He will set free the captive that is held by weakness and misfortune and the chains of sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 203.

“Jesus repelled the charge of blasphemy. My authority, He said, for doing the work of which you accuse Me, is that I am the Son of God, one with Him in nature, in will, and in purpose.”—The Desire of Ages, p. 208.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Reflect upon this week’s lesson. Faith was the key that made these healings possible. The leaders, in contrast, revealed the dangers of doubt and unbelief. Why must we not confuse having questions (which we all do) with having doubt? Why are they not the same thing, and why is it important to know the difference between them?`

`Look at Thursday’s final question. Why, as Seventh-day Adventists, must we be especially careful about this danger? However important, for instance, knowing and even keeping the right Sabbath day, or knowing about the state of the dead—why do these truths not save us? What does save us, and how?`

`Look carefully at John 5:47. How are those today who, for instance, deny the universality of the Flood, or the literal six-day Creation, doing exactly what Jesus warned against here?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

My Life Today, “Forgiveness of Sin Brings Healing,” p. 154;\
The Upward Look, “Revelation of God’s Will,” p. 341.