---
title:  God Fights for You
date:  25/10/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Genesis 15:16; Genesis 18:25; Exodus 23:28–30; Deuteronomy 20:10, 15–18; Isaiah 9:6.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Joshua won all these battles in one long fight. He won against all these kings and their lands. He won because the Lord, Israel’s God, was fighting on Israel’s behalf [for Israel]” (Joshua 10:42, EASY).

The book of Joshua contains some stories that we may have trouble understanding. These stories are about war. The stories upset and bother many people. They ask, “How can a holy God ask His people to destroy another group of people?”

For sure, Christians do have trouble understanding the topic of war in the Old Testament. The Old Testament shows us that God is in control of everything in heaven and on earth. So, everything that happens must somehow be part of His plan, right? That’s why many people ask the question, “How can God allow war to happen?” Last week, we saw that God is fighting a war that is bigger than any battle in human history. This war touches every part of our lives. We also saw that we must first understand this worldwide war between good and evil. Then we will better understand the things that happen in the Bible and human history.

This week we continue to study about the wars that God asked His people to fight. We will try to answer the following questions: Why did God ask His people to fight these wars? What Bible truth do these wars teach us? What were the limits that God put on His people when they fought? What peace plan did God offer?