---
title:  The Sins Of The Canaanites
date:  26/10/2025
---

`Why did God offer the land of Canaan to the Israelites? Read Genesis 15:16; Leviticus 18:24–30; Deuteronomy 18:9–14; and Ezra 9:11 for the answer. What do these verses teach us about God’s bigger plan for His people?`

If we want to understand why God said the Canaanites were so evil, we must read the book of Deuteronomy. The Canaanites killed babies and offered them to their gods as gifts. The Canaanites did magic. They communicated with evil spirits. They woke up the “dead” to get advice from them.

Bible thinkers who study Old Testament history discovered some ancient writings from this time. These writings talk about the Canaanite religion and people. The writings show that the Canaanite religion was very evil.

The Canaanites believed in many gods. The Canaanites thought these male and female gods, or goddesses, controlled nature with sex. What did the Canaanites believe happened when their gods and goddesses had sex with each other? Sex caused crops to grow and babies to be born! Or at least, that’s what the Canaanites thought. Also, the Canaanites believed that when they had sex, their behavior caused the gods and goddeses to have sex, too. When that happened, the crops grew, rain fell, and babies were born. So, sex was an important part of the Canaanite religion. As part of this belief, Canaanite men and women served their gods as sex slaves. These men and women had sex with each other as part of their worship!

Scientists found proof that the Canaanites killed their own children and offered them as gifts to their gods. These gods were really demons. Scientists discovered the crushed skeletons of Canaanite babies in large jars. The writing on the jars says that the babies were offerings.

Now we understand better why the Lord decided to give the land of Canaan to the Israelites. God gave the Canaanites time to learn about Him and give up their evil way of life. God sent Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to live among them so they could know God better. The Canaanites had the chance to change their lives and improve. But they continued to do evil. Finally, the Lord stopped them.