---
title:  The Judge Of Heaven And Earth
date:  27/10/2025
---

`Read Genesis 18:25; Psalm 7:11; Psalm 50:6; Psalm 82:1; Psalm 96:10; and 2 Timothy 4:1, 8. What do these verses tell us about God? God is the Judge of ­heaven and earth. How does God’s work as Judge help us understand why God asked His people to go to war? What is a “holy” war?`

God is holy. A holy God cannot accept sin. God is patient with us sinners. But in the end, God will punish sin with death (Romans 6:23). The Lord announced war against all sin. That sin includes the sins of Israel and the Canaanites. The Israelites weren’t made holy because they fought in a holy war. They were sinners, the same as other people (Deuteronomy 9:4, 5; Deuteronomy 12:29, 30). God used the Israelites to punish the other people around them. But if the Israelites disobeyed God, then God did not fight for them. God fought against them. God allowed Israel’s enemies to attack them and cause them to suffer (compare with Joshua 7).

What, then, is a holy war? If we want to understand this idea, we must first understand God’s work as Judge. The people from countries around Israel fought wars to get power, riches, and glory. The same is true today. But in Bible times, Israel fought for different reasons. Israel didn’t fight to get glory or power. Israel fought for God. The Israelites fought to fill the land with God’s peace. They fought to make things fair. So, the holy wars that Israel fought are really about God’s work to make things fair. Israel’s wars show God’s work for His people as a Warrior, King, and Judge.

Yes, the Lord is a mighty fighter, who is also a judge. As judge, the Lord protects His law. The law shows us who He is. God is love. As a warrior, God won’t allow people to fight against His government forever. So, the Lord’s plan for war is never about winning glory or getting power. The Lord fights to bring peace. The Lord fights to make things fair. So, when God judges or goes to war, these two things are really the same thing. That’s because God is the Person who is doing the work.

`Think about God’s work as Judge. As Judge, God is always fair. We can’t buy God’s favor with money. God won’t allow evil or sin to continue forever. Why is the idea of a fair Judge so important to the Good News about Jesus?`