---
title:  Remove Or Kill?
date:  28/10/2025
---

`Read Exodus 23:28–30; Exodus 33:2; Exodus 34:11; Numbers 33:52; and Deuteronomy 7:20. Also read Exodus 34:13; Deuteronomy 7:5; Deuteronomy 9:3; Deuteronomy 12:2, 3; and Deuteronomy 31:3, 4. What do these verses teach us about Israel’s war to win the Promised Land? How much did Israel destroy?`

God’s first plan for the Canaanites was not death. God wanted to remove their land from them and leave them alive. When we look at the verses above, we see what God wanted Israel to do in war. God wanted Israel to remove the people from their land. God also wanted the Israelites to destroy the objects that the Canaanites used to worship their gods.

God wanted His people to stay clean in their hearts and minds. So, He ordered Israel to destroy all the things that the Canaanites used to worship their gods. These things would cause Israel to sin against God. At the same time, God showed mercy to the Canaanites who accepted Him. God allowed these Canaanites to go free (Joshua 2:9–14; compare with Judges 1:24–26). God destroyed only those Canaanites whose hearts were hard. These Canaanites refused to obey God. They hid in their cities. They continued to fight against God’s plan for His people (Joshua 11:19, 20).

We may ask the question: If God’s first plan was to let the Canaanites go free, why did the Israelites need to kill so many people?

When we study the Bible, we see that God didn’t want to kill the Canaanites. But most of the Canaanites were the same as Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Their hearts grew hard against the Lord. They didn’t obey His warnings. So, God destroyed them when He gave their land to Israel.

`Are there things in your heart that you must allow God to remove and destroy? If so, what are they?`