---
title:  Free Choice
date:  29/10/2025
---

`Read Deuteronomy 20:10, 15–18; Deuteronomy 13:12–18; and Joshua 10:40. What do these verses teach us about the rules of fighting that God gave to Israel? What limits did God put on Israel? What were the Israelites allowed to destroy? How much were they allowed to destroy?`

The Bible uses a Hebrew word to talk about the people who were destroyed in war: “cḥerem.” “Cḥerem” shows us things that are under God’s curse. So, these things must be destroyed. Most of the time, “cḥerem” is used to talk about people, animals, or objects under God’s full control. In war, these things often were destroyed. We can best understand this idea if we also understand God’s fight against evil. This war is about Satan’s attacks on God’s love and His law.

In this war, everyone is on God’s side or against Him. One side leads to everlasting life. The other side leads to everlasting death.

When God destroyed the Canaanites, He showed what He will do to sin and evil in the end. God gave the work of destroying the Canaanites to His chosen people, Israel. But God controlled this work. This work was limited to a certain time and place in history. That was the time when Israel fought for the Promised Land. As we saw yesterday, God destroyed only the people who fought against Him. These people refused to stop sinning. God’s decision to destroy them wasn’t because He was mean or loved Israel more.

The Israelites understood that they also would be destroyed if they behaved the same as the Canaanites (compare with Deuteronomy 13). As we shall see, the stories about Rahab, Achan, and the Gibeonites show us that God is willing to show mercy to sinners who are under the curse of sin. But they must turn away from sin and accept Him. God always gives sinners a choice. They can choose to obey God and live. In the same way, the Israelites could lose God’s special favor if they sinned against the Lord.

`What does the story about the hard hearts of the Canaanites teach us about our free choice today?`