---
title:  The Prince Of Peace
date:  30/10/2025
---

`Read Isaiah 9:6; Isaiah 11:1–5; Isaiah 60:17; Hosea 2:18; and Micah 4:3. What do these verses tell us about the future that God plans for His people?`

This week’s lesson is about holy war in the Old Testament. But we need to discuss another idea that the Old Testament also talks about: the future of peace that God promises. The Savior will bring His people this peace. The Savior is named the Prince of peace (Isaiah 9:6). The Savior’s kingdom will be a kingdom of peace. The wolf and the lamb will eat together in peace in this kingdom (Isaiah 11:1–8). There will be no more pain or suffering (Isaiah 11:9). Peace will control everything (Isaiah 60:17; Isaiah 66:12).

`Read the story in 2 Kings 6:16–23. What does this story teach us about God’s plan for His special people and for everyone else on earth too?`

In this story, Elisha commands God’s people to feed the Syrian army. Elisha chooses not to kill the Syrians (2 Kings 6:22). He chooses to show them mercy. God’s plan for His people and for everyone else always is peace. In the story, Elisha knows that an invisible army of angels is around the enemy (2 Kings 6:17). These angels are stronger than the Syrian army. God wants to save people, not beat or destroy them. He wants them to live in peace, not as slaves. Hate and pain causes more hate and pain (Matthew 26:52). Peace makes more peace. The story in 2 Kings 6 ends with this verse: “After this [feast] happened, no more groups of Syrian soldiers came to attack Israel” (2 Kings 6:23, EASY).

`Think about all the ways we can be the same as Jesus. How can we share His peace with other people? What about your own life right now? In what ways can you bring peace and not war to the lives of other people?`