---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  31/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Fall of Jericho,” pages 491–493, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

As we saw already, the worldwide war between God and Satan helps us to understand Israel’s wars against the Canaanites.

“God is very patient. He doesn’t get angry easily or fast. God gave the Canaanites time to learn about His law and His love. God judged them because they refused to believe the Bible truth that He sent to them. The Canaanites chose their own ways and not God’s ways. God gave the reason why He didn’t remove the Canaanites right away from the Promised Land. God wanted to save the Amorites. But the Amorites continued to sin. Soon God would stop being patient with them because of their sins. Then He would destroy the Amorites. Until then, God would continue to be patient with them. God gave all the people groups in the land of Canaan time to come back to Him. But people who didn’t respect God’s law did more and more evil. Their children were born with the same evil hearts their parents had. The children did worse sins than their parents did. This made God angry. So, finally God punished them. Just because God didn’t punish them right away didn’t mean that their sins weren’t terrible.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 2, page 1005, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`God is the Judge of all heaven and earth. Why is God’s work as Judge important to His plan to save us?`

`What does the story about the Canaanites teach us about God and how patient He is with us? How can we show God’s love and be patient with other people?`

`Why do you think God respects our free choice? How are love and free choice connected with each other?`

`The Old Testament contains many stories about war and disagreement. But the Bible really is a promise for future peace. What can Christians do to bring peace in their com­munities?`