---
title:  Further Thought
date:  06/09/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘God With Us,’ ” pp. 19–26, in The Desire of Ages; “Saved to Serve,” pp. 95–107, in The Ministry of Healing.

“God claims the whole earth as His vineyard. Though now in the hands of the usurper, it belongs to God. By redemption no less than by creation it is His. For the world Christ’s sacrifice was made. ‘God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son.’ John 3:16. It is through that one gift that every other is imparted to men. Daily the whole world receives blessing from God. Every drop of rain, every ray of light shed on our unthankful race, every leaf and flower and fruit, testifies to God’s long forbearance and His great love.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 301, 302.

“In Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, bond nor free. All are brought nigh by His precious blood. (Gal. 3:28; Eph. 2:13.)

“Whatever the difference in religious belief, a call from suffering humanity must be heard and answered. . . .

“All around us are poor, tried souls that need sympathizing words and helpful deeds. There are widows who need sympathy and assistance. There are orphans whom Christ has bidden His followers receive as a trust from God. Too often these are passed by with neglect. They may be ragged, uncouth, and seemingly in every way unattractive; yet they are God’s property. They have been bought with a price, and they are as precious in His sight as we are. They are members of God’s great household, and Christians as His stewards are responsible for them.”— Pages 386, 387.

**Discussion Questions:**

`In seeking to do good works and help others, how can we resist the temptation to think that this somehow makes us better and gains us merit that God should recognize?`

`Is your church a community in which there is “no difference”— but all are one in Christ? How can it become more so? How inclusive of others is your church?`

`How do we find the right balance in doing good for those in need, if for no other reason than that they are in need and we can help them, while at the same time reaching out to them with the truths of the gospel? How can we learn to do both, and why is it always better to do both?`

Summary: God’s love as expressed in the plan of salvation and enacted in the life and sacrifice of Jesus offers us forgiveness, life, and hope. As recipients of this grace, we seek to share this with others, not to earn salvation, but because it is what we have been created and re-created to do. As such, the gospel transforms relationships and moves us to serve, particularly those most in need.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Desire of Ages_, “God With Us,” pp. 19–26. 