---
title:  Rejoicing in the Lord
date:  01/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 3:1–3. What positive and negative notes does Paul sound here, and how are they related? How does he describe believers?`

Paul begins on a very positive note and almost sounds as though he is wrapping up his letter. But he’s not done. He returns to one of the main themes of this epistle: rejoicing in the Lord. And he will give a number of reasons for that here. Most important, we are to have confidence in Christ, not in ourselves: “We . . . rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh” (Phil. 3:3). Who among us has, in one way or another, learned the hard way about not putting confidence in the flesh?

The strong warning “Beware” (three times) is not found anywhere else in Scripture. Apparently, the Philippians knew very well what threat Paul was referencing. Rather than three separate problems, the warning appears to refer to a group of false teachers described in three different ways.

Wicked or irreligious people in Israel were sometimes referred to as “dogs” (Phil. 3:2; compare Ps. 22:16; Isa. 56:10; Matt. 7:6; 2 Pet. 2:21, 22). False teachers could also aptly be described as “evil workers.” Referring to them as “the mutilation” (Phil. 3:2, NKJV) or “those who mutilate the flesh” (ESV) shows that, as in Galatia and other locales, they were seeking to impose circumcision on Gentile believers, contrary to the ruling of the Apostolic Council (see Acts 15).

Interestingly, it seems that one solution to spiritual challenges, including the spread of false teachings, is to “rejoice in the Lord” (Phil. 3:1; compare Phil. 4:4).

Anything we rejoice about brings us joy (as in English, the two Greek words for these ideas are related). God wants us to be joyful, and His Word is a kind of instruction manual for true happiness and lasting joy. These include receiving God’s mercy (Ps. 31:7); placing our trust in Him (Ps. 5:11); receiving the blessings of salvation (Ps. 9:14); adopting God’s law as our way of life (Ps. 119:14), including the Sabbath (Isa. 58:13, 14); believing His Word (Ps. 119:162); and raising godly children (Prov. 23:24, 25).

`Life can be very difficult for us all, no matter how well things might be going at the moment. But even if they are not going well now, what things can you and should you rejoice about? What is stopping you from doing it?`