---
title:  Paul’s “Past Life”
date:  02/02/2026
---

It is a common experience for Christian converts to think of their lives in terms of before they accepted Jesus and after, just as Paul does in Philippians 3. Nevertheless, rightly or wrongly, we sometimes speak of those who are not Christians as being “good people,” and, at least according to the world’s standards, many indeed are. In contrast, compared to God’s standards, no one is, not even Christians.

`In Philippians 3:4–6, Paul points to many things in his life of which he had once been proud. What are they? How would you describe the “good” in your own life (past and present)?`

Paul makes an implicit contrast between believing Jews who are spreading false doctrine and uncircumcised believers who rely fully on Christ for their salvation and put no confidence in mere human works such as circumcision (see Heb. 6:1, Heb. 9:14; compare Rom. 2:25–29). Even though Paul’s past life and pedigree would have been quite impressive to his fellow Jews, none of these things contributed to his salvation. In fact, they actually hindered it because they blinded him for a while to his need of Christ.

Paul was not just circumcised—he was an “eighth day-er,” meaning he, an Israelite by birth and belonging to the people of the covenant, was circumcised on the eighth day. Furthermore, he was from the tribe of Benjamin, whose territory included some of the most important cities of Israel. Paul not only knew Hebrew but, as a student of Gamaliel the Elder (Acts 22:3, Acts 26:4, 5) and a Pharisee, he would have been steeped in knowledge of the law and how it was, at least according to tradition, to be applied.

Paul was so zealous for the law that he persecuted the church because of its perceived threat to the Jewish way of life, which he thought the law prescribed. Interestingly, though “blameless” in terms of that human-originated “righteousness,” Paul realized the law was actually far deeper and more demanding than he could imagine, and that without Christ he stood before it condemned.

`Compare Romans 7:7–12 with Matthew 5:21, 22, 27, 28. What crucial point do both Jesus and Paul make about the law, and why is “faith in Christ” (Phil. 3:9, NKJV), rather than the law, the only source of righteousness? Look at it this way: How well do you keep the law, at least in the way Jesus said we should?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

I long for physical strength and health, for mental clearness, that I may render to God acceptable service. “Ye have not chosen me,” Christ has said, “but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you” (John 15:16).\
The Word is full of precious promises. I shall have strength of eyesight, I shall have strength of brain, I shall have clearness of conception and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, because I ask in the name of Jesus. Precious Saviour! He gave His life for me. “O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor? Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen” (Romans 11:33–36).\
I long for the benefits that we all may receive through faith. Now is our opportunity to hide our life with Christ in God. Every moment of our time is precious. The precious talents lent us of God are to be employed in His service. “Ye are not your own. For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God’s” (1 Corinthians 6:19, 20).\
Yes, we are the Lord’s blood-bought heritage. “Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God” (1 Corinthians 10:31). This God requires of every one who shall compose His family in the kingdom of heaven. All selfishness must be overcome. We must be true to God, true as steel to all His commandments. Human beings frame laws, and are very zealous for their enactment. At the same time they transgress the highest law from the mightiest Sovereign. This they attempt to make null and void. They exalt the human above the divine. “Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord of hosts” (Jeremiah 5:9). Yes, God will reward every man according to his works.—This Day With God, p. 220.

Nearest the throne are those who were once zealous in the cause of Satan, but who, plucked as brands from the burning, have followed their Saviour with deep, intense devotion. Next are those who perfected Christian characters in the midst of falsehood and infidelity, those who honored the law of God when the Christian world declared it void, and the millions, of all ages, who were martyred for their faith. And beyond is the “great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, . . . before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.” Revelation 7:9. Their warfare is ended, their victory won. They have run the race and reached the prize. The palm branch in their hands is a symbol of their triumph, the white robe an emblem of the spotless righteousness of Christ which now is theirs.—The Great Controversy, p. 665.