---
title:  The Things That Matter
date:  03/02/2026
---

As yesterday’s study pointed out, the things that previously made Paul proud were actually hindrances to faith because they blinded him to his need of Christ. Paul uses the language of commerce, gain and loss, to describe his spiritual ledger prior to faith. Although we don’t like to think about it much, every human being has a “spiritual ledger.” Previously, Paul’s ledger was measured by the Jewish values of the time rather than by the biblical values as taught by Jesus.

After his conversion, his spiritual ledger looked very different because its scale of values dramatically changed, from the “currency” of Judaism to the “currency of heaven.”

“He who came down from heaven can speak of heaven, and rightly present the things which form the currency of heaven, on which he has stamped his image and superscription. He knows the danger in which those are placed whom he came to uplift from degradation, and to exalt to a place beside himself upon his throne. He points out their peril in lavishing affection upon useless and dangerous objects. He seeks to draw the mind away from the earthly to the heavenly, that we may not waste time, talent, and opportunity, upon things that are altogether vanity.”—Ellen G. White, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, July 1, 1890.

In the world of first-century Judaism, Paul had been a rapidly rising star until, by becoming blind at the sight of the glorified Jesus on the Damascus road (Acts 9), his spiritual eyesight was corrected, and he saw clearly.

`John 9 tells the story of another man who was blind and then saw Jesus clearly. Jesus said He came into the world so “that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may be made blind” (John 9:39, NKJV). How might this principle be applied to your own life?`

What could be more valuable than eternal life in heaven and on the new earth? Yet worldly values blind so many to this reality. There is an inherent competition between the things valued here (see Matt. 13:22; Luke 4:5, 6; 1 John 2:16) and the things Heaven values—likeness to Christ and souls saved.

`The world can blind us to spiritual truths and to what is really important. What is the key to keeping our eyes focused on what truly matters?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We are to be witnesses for Christ; and this we shall be when we grow up daily into the full stature of men and women in Christ. It is our privilege to grow more and more like Him every day. Then we shall acquire the power to express our love for Him in higher, purer speech, and our ideas will enlarge and deepen, and our judgment become more sound and trustworthy, while our testimony will have more of life and assurance. We are not to cultivate the language of the earthy, and be so familiar with the conversation of men, that the language of Canaan will be new and unfamiliar to us. We are to learn in the school of Christ; yet it is manifest that many are satisfied with very limited experience in spiritual things, for they reveal but little knowledge of spiritual things in their prayers and testimonies. There is less good judgment manifested in matters concerning our eternal interests, than in matters concerning our earthly, temporal affairs.\
Christians are to be faithful students in the school of Christ, ever learning more of heaven, more of the words and will of God; more of the truth and how to use faithfully the knowledge that they have gained.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 72.

In much of the service professedly done for God, there is self-emulation and self-exultation. God hates pretense. When men and women receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit, they will confess their sins, and, pardon, which means justification, will be given them. But the wisdom of the human agents who are not penitent, not humbled, is not to be depended on, for they are blinded in regard to the meaning of righteousness and sanctification through the truth. When men are stripped of self-righteousness, they will see their spiritual poverty. Then they will approach that state of brotherly kindness that will show that they are in sympathy with Christ. They will be able to appreciate the high and elevated character of the work of Christian missions. . . .\
Many are readily satisfied with offering the Lord trifling acts of service. Their Christianity is feeble. Christ gave Himself for sinners. With what anxiety for the salvation of souls we should be filled as we see human beings perishing in sin. These souls have been bought with a price.\
The death of the Son of God on Calvary’s cross is the measure of their value. Day by day they are deciding a question of life and death, deciding whether they will have eternal life or eternal destruction. And yet men and women professing to serve the Lord are content to occupy their time and attention with matters of little importance. They are content to be at variance with one another. If they were consecrated to the work of the Master, they would not be striving and contending like a family of unruly children. Every hand would be engaged in service. Everyone would be standing at his post of duty, working with heart and soul as missionaries of the cross of Christ. The Spirit of Christ would abide in the hearts of laborers, and works of righteousness would be wrought. The workers would carry with them into their service the sympathies and prayers of an awakened church. They would receive their orders from Christ, and would find no time for contention or strife.—This Day With God, p. 326.