---
title:  The Faith of Christ
date:  04/02/2026
---

Paul’s main point must not be missed. There was a wonderful exchange that he experienced on the Damascus road, trading his old, law-based life for the presence of Christ Himself—“that I may gain Christ and be found in Him” (Phil. 3:8, 9, NKJV).

`To be found “in Him,” that is, in Christ, is an interesting expression. Read Ephesians 1:4, 2 Corinthians 5:21, Colossians 2:9, and Galatians 2:20. Based on these passages, what do you think Paul means by this idea?`

Paul’s reference to being in Christ has been widely discussed. Not surprisingly, perhaps the best explanation of it comes from Paul himself: “That in the dispensation of the fullness of the times He might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth—in Him” (Eph. 1:10, NKJV). That has been God’s purpose from the start. And Paul makes clear how that happens: “You are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God—and righteousness and sanctification and redemption” (1 Cor. 1:30, NKJV).

Being “in Christ” comprehends everything that the plan of salvation encompasses, from the dawning of our spiritual intelligence (wisdom), to justification by faith (righteousness), to preparation for heaven (sanctification), and finally to glorification at the Second Advent (redemption). Salvation is Christ’s work from start to finish—for us and in us. Thus, by gaining Christ, we have everything we need.

`Read Philippians 3:9. What two things does Paul contrast, and why is this contrast important to always remember?`

As Paul came to realize, having one’s “own righteousness” is not real righteousness because the law cannot give life (see Gal. 3:21, 22); only Christ can, through faith. And not just any faith. After all, the devils believe and tremble (James 2:19). The only saving faith is “the faith of Christ.” Only His faith has obeyed fully and can obey. (The Greek word for faith, pistis, also means faithfulness.) So, if we are in Christ and He lives in us (Gal. 2:20), then we live by His faith through our faith in Him.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

A great work is to be accomplished by the setting forth of the saving truths of the Bible. This is the means ordained of God to stem the tide of moral corruption in the earth. Christ gave His life to make it possible for man to be restored to the image of God. It is the power of His grace that draws men together in obedience to the truth. Those who would experience more of the sanctification of the truth in their own souls should present this truth to those who are ignorant of it. Never will they find a more elevating, ennobling work. . . .\
No man is qualified for this work unless he is daily learning to speak the words of the Teacher sent from God. Now is the time to sow the gospel seed. The seed we sow must be that which will produce the choicest fruit. We have no time to lose. The work of our schools is to become more and more in character like the work of Christ. Only the power of the grace of God working on human hearts and minds will make and keep the atmosphere of our schools and churches clean. . . .\
In the messages that have been sent us from time to time, we have truths that will accomplish a wonderful work of reform in our characters if we will give them place. They will prepare us for entrance into the city of God. It is our privilege to make continual advancement to a higher grade of Christian living. . . .\
We need to be converted from our faulty lives to the faith of the gospel. Christ’s followers have no need to try to shine. If they will behold constantly the life of Christ they will be changed in mind and heart into the same image. Then they will shine without any superficial attempt. The Lord asks for no display of goodness. In the gift of His Son He has made provision that our inward lives may be imbued with the principles of heaven. It is the appropriation of this provision that will lead to a manifestation of Christ to the world. When the people of God experience the new birth, their honesty, their uprightness, their fidelity, their steadfast principles, will unfailingly reveal it.—Lift Him Up, p. 171.

The Word of God contains our life insurance policy. To eat the flesh and drink the blood of the Son of God means to study the Word and to carry that Word into the life in obedience to all its precepts. Those who thus partake of the Son of God become partakers of the divine nature, one with Christ. They breathe a holy atmosphere, in which only the soul can truly live. They carry in their lives an assurance of the holy principles received from the Word—their lives are worked by the power of the Holy Spirit, and they have an earnest of the immortality that will be theirs through the death and resurrection of Christ. Should the earthly body decay, the principles of their faith sustain them, for they are partakers of the divine nature. Because Christ was raised from the dead, they grasp the pledge of their resurrection, and eternal life is their reward.\
This truth is an eternal truth, because Christ Himself taught it. He has engaged to raise the righteous dead, for He gave His life for the life of the world. “As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me” (John 6:57). “I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger” (verse 35).—The Upward Look, p. 78.