---
title:  Further Thought
date:  06/02/2026
---

“He who would build up a strong, symmetrical character, he who would be a well-balanced Christian, must give all and do all for Christ; for the Redeemer will not accept divided service. Daily he must learn the meaning of self-surrender. He must study the word of God, learning its meaning and obeying its precepts. Thus he may reach the standard of Christian excellence. Day by day God works with him, perfecting the character that is to stand in the time of final test. And day by day the believer is working out before men and angels a sublime expe­riment, showing what the gospel can do for fallen human beings.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 483.

“Those who wait for the Bridegroom’s coming are to say to the people, ‘Behold your God.’ The last rays of merciful light, the last message of mercy to be given to the world, is a revelation of His character of love. The children of God are to manifest His glory. In their own life and character they are to reveal what the grace of God has done for them.

“The light of the Sun of Righteousness is to shine forth in good works—in words of truth and deeds of holiness.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 415, 416.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Dwell more on this question of rejoicing in the Lord. Notice that it is not saying to rejoice in your trials (though that’s biblical too) but in the Lord. Why is it so important to always keep before us the Lord, His goodness, His power, His love, and His salvation? How would doing that greatly benefit you amid the inevitable trials of life?`

`Notice how the above quotations describe the role of grace in producing the “good works” we do as Christians. Why is this function of grace so important as we look forward to the soon coming of Christ? That is, though we are not saved by good works, are we really saved if we don’t have them?`

`Dwell more on this idea of not having confidence in the flesh. What does that mean? Why should we not have confidence in it? Is not our flesh a gift from God?`