---
title:  How to Study Difficult Verses
date:   13/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

2 Timothy 2:10–15; 1 Chronicles 29:17; James 4:6–10; Galatians 6:9; Acts 17:11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Remember that we are saved because our Lord is patient. Our dear brother Paul told you the same thing when he wrote to you with the wisdom that God gave him. Paul writes about this in all his letters. Sometimes there are things in Paul’s letters that are hard to understand. And some people explain these things falsely [in the wrong way]. They are ignorant [have no understanding] and weak in faith. They also falsely explain the other Scriptures. But they are destroying themselves [their own spirits] by doing that” (2 Peter 3:15, 16, ICB).

PETER SAYS that some parts of Paul’s letters are “hard to understand” (2 Peter 3:16, NKJV). Do you see that Peter does not say that all parts of Paul’s letters are hard to understand? Only some are. We know that also is true about the Bible. Who has not read a verse that was strange and difficult to understand? For sure, we all have this experience sometimes.

This week we will look at the reasons why some verses are difficult to understand. We also will answer the question: What can we do to understand these verses better? In the end, some of our questions may not be answered before Jesus comes back. At the same time, we must remember that most verses in the Bible are not hard to understand. So, we should not let the small number of difficult verses cause our trust in the Bible to become weak. Remember, we can trust the Bible because it is God’s Word.

_Peter says that some parts of Paul’s letters are hard to understand (2 Peter 3:15, 16)._
