---
title:  POSSIBLE REASONS FOR WHAT LOOK LIKE DISAGREEMENTS IN THE BIBLE
date:   14/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Paul’s advice in 2 Timothy 2:10–15. Paul tells Timothy to “do your best” (2 Timothy 2:15, ERV) and to “teach the message of truth correctly” (2 Timothy 2:15, NIrV). What important message does Paul give us here?`

All thoughtful and honest Bible students will agree that there are parts in the Bible that are hard to understand. This problem should not worry us. We should expect it. Remember, we are not perfect. We do not live forever or have perfect knowledge. No human knows all there is to know about anything on earth. We know even less about the things of God. So, when we humans try to understand the wisdom of God in the Bible, we will have trouble sometimes. But we must remember that this does not in any way prove that the Bible is not true.

People who do not believe that God gave humans the Bible often say that there are many parts of the Bible that disagree. For them, the Bible is only a book written by humans. So, they believe the Bible must be filled with mistakes. They do not try to look for an explanation that shows that there is agreement between the difficult parts. People who start to question the first pages of the Bible may soon doubt much of the rest of the Bible too.

So, why do some parts of the Bible disagree with other parts? The problem may come from mistakes that people made when they made copies of the Bible or wrote it in another language. Ellen G. White writes: “Some say to us, ‘Do you not think that the people who copied the Bible or wrote in another language made mistakes?’ This is possible. Some people will stop believing in the Bible because of these mistakes. These same people will be ready to find problems with believing in the mysteries of the Bible. Why? Because their weak minds do not understand God’s plan. These same people will have trouble understanding plain facts that most minds will accept. They will not be able to understand spiritual truths or see that God’s words are clear and beautiful. True believers in the Bible will never see problems with the truth that God has clearly shown.”—Selected Messages, book 1, page 16, adapted.

`Why is it so important that we study the Bible with hearts that are not filled with pride?`

_Some mistakes in the Bible came from people who made copies of the Bible or wrote it in another language._
