---
title:  BE HONEST AND CAREFUL WHEN YOU STUDY
date:   15/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Have you ever read a verse that you did not understand? Was it hard to see how this verse connected or fit with other verses? It is hard to believe that anyone has not had this problem. The question is, How did you solve it? Or, more important, How should you solve it?

`Read 1 Chronicles 29:17; Proverbs 2:7; and 1 Timothy 4:16. What are these verses saying? How can they help us to know what to do when we read a verse that is hard to understand?`

We must be honest. Being honest will help us to solve problems in the right way. Being honest keeps us safe too. It helps us not to avoid problems or try to hide them. Being honest will keep us from giving silly answers to the problems. God is pleased with us when we are honest. So, we should copy His example in everything we do, even when we study the Bible.

Honest people will be careful not to say anything about a Bible verse that is not true. They will not lie or lead others to believe anything false. It is far better to wait for God to give you an answer that the Bible supports. We must not try to explain things in a way that is not true and clear. When we are honest in our Bible study, we build trust in God and with other people. All healthy friendships are built on trust. So, do not make a verse say what you want it to say when it does not say that at all. It is much better to tell someone that you do not know the answer to a question.

Careful people want to know the truth about the Bible. So, they always will make sure that they do not rush to get answers that come from quick decisions about what the verse means. They also do not try to answer questions about things that they know very little about. They do not use proof that is weak to show someone that their idea is correct. Careful people always pay attention to every piece of information or part of a verse that may be important. They take their time to think about things. They do not rush. They are careful in their study of the Bible.

`What do you do with verses that you do not fully understand? What should you do with them when they do not fit what you know about Bible truth?`

_Careful people take their time to think about things. They do not rush._
