---
title:  SOLVE PROBLEMS WITH NO PRIDE IN YOUR HEART
date:   16/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read James 4:6–10; 2 Chronicles 7:14; and Zephaniah 3:12. Why is having a heart with no pride important when we study difficult verses in the Bible?`

Many people come to understand that they must depend on something and someone else. They learn that they do not have all the answers to life’s problems. These people learn that Bible truth is more important than their need to be right. They understand that the truth is not what they say is right. Maybe the most important truth that these people learn is just how little they really know about truth. They know that they “see as if [they] are looking into a dark mirror” (1 Corinthians 13:12, ICB).

God will bless us when we have hearts and minds with no pride. This is what it means to have a humble heart. When we study with a humble heart, then we will grow in knowledge. A humble heart helps us to be free from pride. Then we will be willing to let God teach us. Does this mean that humble people are not ever wrong? Of course not. They may be wrong at times. Or they may change their minds about things. Their having a humble heart shows only that they surrender their hearts to Bible truth. They understand that they do not know everything. So, they know that they can always learn new things about the Bible.

“All who come to the Bible for truth must come with humble hearts and minds. They must want to know the truth about God’s plan to save them. Then they will understand what the Bible says. But there are people who study the Bible with a spirit that the Bible does not accept. These people will search the Bible and come away with false ideas. The Lord will not talk to a mind that does not care about the truth. God does not waste His teachings on a person who shows Him no respect and whose mind is not clean. But Satan teaches every mind that surrenders itself to his lies. These people are willing to say that God’s holy law is not important.

“We need to empty our hearts of all pride. With true and holy hearts, we need to search the Bible. Only a person with a humble heart that is sorry for sin can understand Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, August 22, 1907, adapted.

_Satan teaches every mind that surrenders itself to his lies._
