---
title:  BE PATIENT AND DO NOT GIVE UP!
date:   17/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Galatians 6:9. In this verse, Paul says that we must not get tired of doing good. In the same way, we must not get tired of answering difficult questions. Why are being patient and not giving up important when we solve problems?`

Real success always comes from not giving up. If we do not need to work hard to get something, then we may not care too much about it. The difficult verses in the Bible give us a chance to put our brains to work. The energy and time we put into solving a problem shows how important the answer is to us. Any time that we spend studying the Bible to try to find out more about its meaning and message is time well spent. When we carefully search the Bible for answers, it is a blessing. Even if it takes a long time. Maybe it is even more of a blessing than when we find the answer right away. When we solve a hard problem, the answer is very precious to us.

You may not solve a problem right away. But that does not prove that you cannot solve it. It is surprising how often we forget this. There are many people who read a difficult verse in the Bible. They do not understand it right away. So, they feel that this problem cannot be solved. Then they think the Bible cannot be trusted. But we must remember that there may be an easy answer. We may not be able to see it. What do we think about a math student who tries to solve a difficult math problem and gives up after only a half hour? Then this student says that there is no possible answer to the problem. Why? Because he did not solve it! We must not behave this way when we study the Bible.

When you read something difficult that you cannot solve, what should you do? Lay the problem aside for a while. Then obey the clear Bible truth that God has shown to you. We get some spiritual answers only after we have been willing to follow what God already has told us to do. So be patient. Do not give up in your study of the Bible. Remember, believers in the end times are patient (Revelation 14:12).

`What can we learn from other people who have been patient in their study of difficult Bible verses? How can we encourage other people not to give up their search for truth?`

_Do not give up in your study of the Bible. Remember, believers in the end times are patient (Revelation 14:12)._
