---
title:  PRAY WHEN YOU STUDY DIFFICULT BIBLE VERSES
date:   18/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Acts 17:11; Acts 8:35; and Acts 15:15, 16. What did the apostles, or leaders and teachers, and church members in New Testament times do when they had to solve difficult problems? Why does the Bible always offer us the best explanations for its verses?`

The best answer to Bible problems is always found in the Bible itself. So, it is best when we study Bible problems to look for answers in the whole Bible. That is much better than trying to understand a verse by itself. We must use the whole Bible to help us to understand the Bible. That is one of the most important things we can do.

Let us say you do not understand a Bible verse. What should you do? Try to search for an answer from other verses that talk about the same topic. Always try to find clear words from the Bible that help you to understand those verses that are less clear. Also, do not use science or human thinking or other writings to explain the Bible’s meaning. We should let the verses of the Bible show us what they mean.

We must remember to pray when we study the Bible too. On our knees, we look at problems in a new way. When we pray, we show God that we are in need of His help to understand the Bible. When we pray, we show God that we want His Spirit to help us to understand. This is the same Holy Spirit who led the Bible writers to write the Bible.

When we pray, we see what is in our hearts. We can tell God why we want to understand what we read. In prayer, we ask God to open our eyes to the Bible and to give us a willing spirit to obey His truth. (This is super important!) God guides us by His Holy Spirit in answer to our prayers. He does not ever go against what He says in the Bible. God always will agree with the Bible. He will build on the truth that He led Bible writers to communicate to us.

`How does prayer help you get into the right spirit so that you can better understand and obey the Bible?`

_When we pray, we show God that we want His Spirit to help us understand._
