---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   19/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Read Ellen G. White, “What to Do With Doubt” pages 105–113 in Steps to Christ.

We find many mysteries in the Bible. These mysteries are difficult for our human minds to understand. We cannot fully explain them. This is why we need a heart with no pride, or a humble mind. We should be willing to learn from the Bible. When we trust what the Bible says, then we allow the Bible to say what it means. We must respect the Bible, not change it or turn away from its true meaning. (Yes, some people really do change Bible verses to make them say what they want them to say.)

“When we open the Bible without respect or prayer, doubt grows in our minds. The same thing happens when our thoughts and feelings are not fixed on God and are not in agreement with His plan for our lives. When that happens, doubt will grow when we study the Bible. Then the enemy takes control of our thoughts. He gives us explanations about the Bible that are wrong. So, that is why men must try to be in agreement with God in all that they say and do. If not, it is possible that they will be wrong in their understanding of the Bible. It is not safe to trust their explanations. It does not matter how smart they are. People who look for mistakes in the Bible do not have spiritual wisdom. Their views are wrong. They will see many reasons for doubt and for not believing in things that are really plain and simple.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 110, 111, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Why are the things we talked about this week so important to our having a good understanding of the Bible? What else do you feel is important to have in helping you to understand the Bible better?`

`2. Why should we not be surprised to find things in the Bible that are hard to explain and understand? Think about all the things in nature that are, at times, hard to understand. To this day, water is filled with mysteries. Water! So, why should it be any different with the Bible?`

`3. In Luke 23:43, most Bible versions show Jesus telling the thief on the cross that he will be in heaven with Jesus that day. How can we explain this difficult verse? How can John 20:17; Ecclesiastes 9:5; and 1 Corinthians 15:16–20 help us to understand the answer to this question?`

_The enemy gives us explanations about the Bible that are wrong when we have doubt in our hearts._
