---
title:  Witnesses for the Savior
date:   19/10/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 1:19–23; John 1:29–37; John 1:35–39; John 1:43–46; John 3:1–21.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus answered, ‘I tell you the truth. Unless [except when] you are born again, you cannot be in God’s kingdom’ ” (John 3:3, ICB).

Jesus gave people powerful proof from the Bible to support the things He said about Himself. One of the things Jesus said about Himself was, “ ‘I tell you the truth. The person who believes in me will live for ever’ ” (John 6:47, WE).

But there’s more. Jesus turned water into wine. He fed thousands of people with a few loaves of bread. Jesus healed a Jewish leader’s son. Jesus healed the man at the Pool of Bethesda. Jesus gave sight to one who was born blind. Jesus woke up Lazarus from the dead. John writes about the stories of many people who were witnesses for Jesus. Their stories tell us who Jesus is. These witnesses include Jews, non-Jews, rich and poor, men and women, leaders, people who had an education and people who didn’t.

John also talks about how God Himself is a witness for Jesus. So is the Bible. Both the Bible and God the Father show that Jesus is the Savior.

This week, we will start with John the Baptist’s story about Jesus. Then we will look at the stories about Jesus from Andrew and Simon Peter, Philip and Nathanael, and a surprise witness, the Jewish leader named Nicodemus. Of course, we will look at one of the most powerful human witnesses of all for Jesus: the writer of the Book of John himself.