---
title:  'John the Baptist: A Witness For Jesus'
date:   20/10/2024
---

As we saw last week, the Book of John starts with Jesus Christ, who is God’s Word or living truth. John tells us that Jesus was alive before He made the skies and earth. Some Jews in Jesus’ time expected two Saviors to come, one Savior who was a spiritual leader and one who was a king. John teaches that John the Baptist didn’t announce himself to be one of these Saviors. John the Baptist was a witness for the real Savior.

`Read John 1:19–23. How did John the Baptist explain his work for God?`

The Jewish spiritual leaders sent people to ask John the Baptist who he was. People expected the Savior to come. So, they needed John the Baptist to announce if he was the Savior. John was not the Light. God sent John to be a witness for the Light. Also, God sent John to get people ready for the coming Savior (John 1:6–8). So, John answered the people plainly: “ ‘I am not the Christ [Savior]’ ” (John 1:20, ICB).

Also, John baptized with water. But Jesus would baptize with the Holy Spirit (John 1:26, 33). John said, “ ‘I am not good enough to get down and help Him take off His shoes’ ” (John 1:27, NLV). Jesus was more important than John because He was God (John 1:30). Jesus was the Son of God. John was only His messenger (John 1:34).

`Read Isaiah 40:1–5 and John 1:23. What do these ­verses help us to understand about John’s special work?`

In Bible times, roads were filled with stones. These roads also had holes. Kings sent their servants to make the road smooth. The servants went first on the road to fill in the holes and remove the stones. Then the road was ready for the king to travel on. In the same way, God sent John the Baptist first to get the hearts of the people ready for Jesus to arrive.

`In what way should we as Seventh-day Adventists prepare people for our King in the same way that John the Baptist did for Jesus?`