---
title:  The Lamb Of God
date:   21/10/2024
---

The Jews looked for a Savior who would make them free from Rome. John wrote his book about Jesus to help the people know the truth about the Savior. John wanted people to see that Jesus kept all God’s promises in the Bible about the coming King. The Savior was not a leader with a throne on this earth. The Savior came to keep all the Old Testament promises about Himself. One of these promises said that the Savior would give Himself as an offering for everyone on earth. The Savior would also make new the relationship between God and His people.

`Read John 1:29–37. In these verses, what announcement does John make about Jesus? What word picture does John use to talk about Jesus? Why is this word picture so important? How does it help us understand who Jesus is and His work?`

John the Baptist announces that Jesus is God’s Lamb. This announcement supports the reason why John the Beloved wrote his book about Jesus’ life. John wanted to help people understand who the Savior really was and the work He came to do. Jesus came to be the offering for the sins of the human family. The offerings in the Old Testament showed what Jesus would do. Jesus would keep God’s promise to save sinners. God first made this promise about the Savior in Genesis 3:15.

“When Jesus was baptized, John announced that Jesus was the Lamb of God. John’s announcement helped people to understand the Savior’s work in a new way. The Holy Spirit helped John remember the words that Isaiah wrote: ‘He was led away like a lamb to be killed.’ Isaiah 53:7 [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 136, adapted.

`Read Mark 10:45; Romans 5:6; and 1 Peter 2:24. How do these verses help us understand the work that Jesus came to do as the Lamb of God?`

For sure, John the Baptist didn’t understand everything about the Savior or the work He came to do. But John understood that Jesus was the promised Savior. Also, John understood that Jesus came to keep God’s promises.

`Jesus is the Lamb of God. How does this word picture help you understand the price God paid to save us?`