---
title:  The Two Followers Of John The Baptist
date:   22/10/2024
---

The two followers of John the Baptist stood with him when Jesus came near. John announced, “ ‘Look! The Lamb of God!’ ” (John 1:36, NIrV). The two followers listened to John’s message about Jesus. Jesus came to keep all the Old Testament promises about the coming Savior. The two followers left John the Baptist to follow Jesus. The two followers understood that Jesus was more important than John the Baptist. The followers also understood that Jesus was the promised Savior that John preached about.

`Read about John the Baptist’s two followers in John 1:35–39. What did these two followers do after hearing John preach about Jesus?`

The followers wanted to be with Jesus. So, they stayed with Him for the day. Who knows what amazing experiences they had, or the wonderful things Jesus taught them!

They must have had a powerful experience. Before long, the two followers wanted to tell other people about Jesus. One of the two followers was Andrew. Right away, Andrew found his brother, Simon, and said, “ ‘We have found the Messiah [Savior]!’ (Messiah means the Christ, the messenger of [from] God.)” (John 1:41, WE). Then Andrew brought Simon to Jesus. Right away, Jesus showed that He knew Simon. “Jesus looked at him and said, ‘You are Simon, the son of John. Your name will be Cephas.’ (Cephas means Peter, a rock or stone.)” (John 1:42, WE). Jesus understood Peter. Jesus’ special knowledge about people is an important topic in the Book of John that we see again and again (read John 2:24, 25).

“What if John and Andrew were the same as the Jewish leaders? Then John and Andrew couldn’t be Jesus’ followers. They would never sit at Jesus’ feet and learn from Him. They would come to Jesus to judge His words and attack Him. . . . But John and Andrew didn’t do those things. The Holy Spirit spoke to their hearts through the preaching of John the Baptist. John and Andrew answered the Holy Spirit’s invitation to follow Jesus. Now John and Andrew knew Jesus was a Teacher from heaven. . . . Jesus helped them to understand Old Testament teachings in a new way.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 139, adapted.

The Book of John helps us to understand who Jesus is so that we may share this Good News with everyone.