---
title:  Philip And Nathanael
date:   23/10/2024
---

`Read John 1:43–46. What did Philip’s message show about his faith in Jesus?`

Philip was from Bethsaida. So were Andrew and Peter. Philip found his friend Nathanael and told him about Jesus. John the Baptist named Jesus the Lamb of God. Andrew told Peter that he found the Savior. But Philip said that Jesus was the Person that Moses and God’s special messengers wrote about. Philip also adds the name, “Jesus of Nazareth.” When Philip says Jesus is from Nazareth, Nathanael gives Philip a sharp answer.

Nathanael’s answer shows us that he had bad feelings in his heart against the town of Nazareth. For sure, no king would come from this town! Our bad feelings about something easily can close our minds. Nathanael could not understand Jesus at this time. How does Philip answer? He doesn’t try to argue with Nathanael. Philip invites Nathanael to, “ ‘come and see’ ” (John 1:46, ERV). So, Nathanael went and saw.

`Read John 1:47–51. How does Jesus convince Nathanael about who He is? How does Nathanael answer?`

Nathanael’s answer to Philip’s invitation is missing between verses 46 and 47. We do know that Nathanael got up and went to see Jesus. Nathanael’s friendship with Philip was more important than his feelings about people from Nazareth. Nathanael met Jesus, and his life changed in that moment..

Jesus says nice words about Nathanael. Jesus says that Nathanael is an Israelite you can trust (John 1:47). Nathanael isn’t false. He doesn’t try to fool or trick people. Jesus’ nice words about Nathanael are different from Nathanael’s words about Jesus (John 1:46). Nathanael answers Jesus with surprise because he never met Jesus before. So, how could Jesus know who he was?

Then Jesus says that He saw Nathanael under a fig tree. This small announcement convinces Nathanael. With the Holy Spirit’s help, Jesus saw Nathanael while he prayed and searched for truth under that tree (read Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 140, 141). Nathanael confesses that Jesus is a Teacher, the Son of God, and the King of Israel.