---
title:  Nicodemus
date:   24/10/2024
---

`Read the story about Nicodemus in John 3:1–21. How does this story show us who Jesus is?`

Nicodemus was a respected teacher in Israel and a wealthy member of the Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin was the name of the religious government for the Jews. Nicodemus’ story about Jesus is an important part of John’s book for several reasons. Nicodemus says that Jesus is a “Rabbi” or teacher. Nicodemus also believes that the signs that Jesus did are proof that Jesus came from heaven. So, before Nicodemus really understood what he was doing, he gave proof to support the idea that Jesus was the Savior.

Nicodemus believed the signs were proof that God sent Jesus. But Nicodemus didn’t believe that the signs were proof that Jesus also kept all God’s promises about the Savior in the Old Testament. So, Nicodemus came to Jesus with some doubt. He didn’t, at this time, believe Jesus was the real Savior.

`What did Jesus say to Nicodemus to show that He saw everything in his heart? Read John 3:3–21 for the answer.`

Jesus knows what is in the heart of every person. The Jews believe that the non-Jews needed to be saved. But many Jews didn’t understand that they, too, needed saving. They needed new hearts. No one is born saved.

The Jews had a wonderful history that went back to Abraham. They had many spiritual blessings (read Romans 3:1, 2). But that was not enough. Jesus told Nicodemus that, as a teacher and leader in Israel, he must be born again!

Then Jesus showed Nicodemus how little he really knew about being saved. “Jesus said, ‘Are you a teacher among the Jews and do not know these things?’ ” (John 3:10, NLV). For sure, Jesus’ words surprised Nicodemus.

Nicodemus had questions about Jesus at that time. But later, Nicodemus took Jesus’ side with the true followers of Jesus (read John 19:39).

`What does it mean to be born again? Why did Jesus make being born again an important part of being a Christian?`