---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   25/10/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Nicodemus,” pages 167–177, in The Desire of Ages.

Nicodemus “searched the Old Testament in a new way. He did not look for information to help him argue his ideas or win a fight. Nicodemus read the Bible to get spiritual life. He allowed the Holy Spirit to lead him. Then he started to understand the kingdom of heaven. . . .

“Our faith helps us to accept God’s mercy. But faith is not our Savior. Faith earns us nothing. Faith helps us grab hold of Jesus and accept His offering for our sin. . . . Jesus also helps us to feel sorry for breaking God’s law. Forgiveness is Jesus’ gift to us, too.

How are we saved? Moses lifted up the snake in the desert. In the same way, Jesus was lifted up on the cross. Everyone that the snake lied to and bit may look and live. That’s why John the Baptist said, “ ‘Look! The Lamb of God! He takes away the sins of the world!’ ” John 1:29 [ERV]. Spiritual truth, the same as light, shines from the cross. This light shows us God’s love. God’s love brings us to Himself. If we accept this love, God will lead us to Jesus. Jesus will help us say we are sorry for our sins. Jesus will help us to change our behavior. These sins hurt Jesus on the cross. Then the Holy Spirit will give us new life. We will start to control our thoughts and wishes and obey Jesus. The Holy Spirit makes our hearts and minds new, the same as Jesus. The Spirit helps us to be the same as Jesus is in our hearts and minds. The Spirit also writes God’s law in our minds and hearts. Then we can say with Jesus, ‘My God, I want to do what you want. Your teachings are in my heart.’ Psalm 40:8 [ICB].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 175, 176, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`John the Baptist came to get people ready for Jesus. What is the human idea of success? Do you think John was a success in the way that humans view and understand success? What is your idea of “success” in spiritual things?`

`Later, John the Baptist shared some real doubts that he had about Jesus (Matthew 11:2, 3; Luke 7:19). What caused John’s questions? What can we learn from his questions about how to stay strong in our faith?`