---
title:  The Advent Mission
date:   23/12/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 28:19, 20**

**The Advent Mission**

Studying the Bible correctly and coming to contextually sound conclusions is more important than simply getting the right answers. In math classes, students are graded not only on their answers but more importantly on the process used in reaching those answers. This idea is why it sometimes took decades for our church to adopt aspects of certain beliefs or practices—because God wanted us to arrive at the conclusion in the right way.

Adventist mission was birthed through a correct understanding of the Great Commission in Matthew 28. These verses emphasize the responsibility of each Christian to share the gospel. It was more than ten years after our church was founded that our first official missionary, J.N. Andrews, was sent to Switzerland, where Michael Chehowski had done some unofficial missionary work. Chehowski had done some good work but hadn’t told any of the new believers that he was a Seventh-day Adventist or that there was a church organization. When some of those believers learned the truth, they sent word to Battle Creek, and in response, J.N. Andrews was sent with the commendation that “we sent you the ablest man in all our ranks” (Ellen White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 5 [1990], 436). Andrews had lost his wife Angeline two years prior to a stroke. But in 1874 Andrews sailed to Europe with his twelve-year-old son Charles and sixteen-year-old daughter Mary. Both children helped their father start a publishing house in Switzerland and an Adventist periodical in French, Les Signes des Temps.

By the end of the century, missionaries were going to the South Pacific, Africa, Asia, and South America, pioneering the work on these continents. This work was not easy; missionaries had to travel by ship, communication with the church in America was slow, and they often had to build the membership and the church infrastructure from scratch. These pioneers were men and women of fortitude, and their stories are truly inspiring. There is still a great need for missionaries to go into the many unreached areas of the world today. Could God be calling you?

#### inScribe

Outline Matthew 28:19, 20 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `