---
title:  A Call into Unentered Areas
date:   24/12/2023
---

#### inGest

The early Advent believers sought to be faithful to the Bible in all they did, and this devotion drove the church’s mission forward. Compelled by a desire to see the church grow, James White published an article in The Review and Herald in 1852 saying some of the brethren should consider moving west to Iowa. Several families answered the call and moved from New England and New York, where a large community of believers was located. The church continued to expand across the U.S. in the following years, and the first missionary went overseas in 1874.

The church was initially reluctant to go overseas, but once they committed to it, the small group of only 3,500 showed a remarkable dedication to reaching the world. Missionaries traveled to South America, Africa, Asia, and the South Pacific in the 1880s and 90s, establishing churches, schools, sanitariums, health food companies, and printing presses almost everywhere they went. This structured approach to mission is something the world church still benefits from today, and, amazingly, the church still owns many of the properties that were purchased back then. Though it was a very dangerous job and many who went never returned due to illnesses such as malaria or tuberculosis, the stories of how the work started in each continent and country are fascinating and uplifting.

What drove this small church was an understanding that the gospel needed to go to every nation. They initially believed that simply reach the immigrant populations in America and would sufficiently fulfill the gospel commission, but they eventually realized they actually had to physically go to every people group in the world. Leaving our comfort zones is never easy, nor is it easy to follow God’s call into previously unreached areas, but the command in Matthew is simple: Go.

The book of Matthew contains several elements that would have been particularly hard for the Jewish audience in the first century to swallow. For example, Matthew is the only Gospel writer to mention the wise men who came from the East (Matt. 2:1), and he highlighted other Gentile believers as well, such as the Canaanite woman and the Roman centurion whom Jesus said had greater faith than anybody in Israel (Matt. 8:5–13; 15:21–28). Matthew’s Gospel also begins with a mind-blowing genealogy that follows Jesus’ ancestors all the way back to Abraham. This genealogy includes the names of four women with bad reputations: Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba. Deceivers, a prostitute, Gentiles, and adulterers were all in Jesus’ direct lineage at the very beginning of the book, and were all shunned by Jewish society. The decision to include their names must have been deliberate—a rebuke to Jewish exclusivity and an attempt to let the Jewish readers know that Jesus has room for all in His family.

Matthew begins his gospel showing us that Jesus includes everyone in His family; he concludes the book with the Great Commission, instructing us to share the gospel with all. Matthew’s story of Jesus’ ministry cannot be embraced without living the mission to take the gospel to all people.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What kind of shortcuts do we try to take to make Jesus’ commission to take the gospel to the whole world easier?`

`What are ways we can fulfill the gospel commission at home?`