---
title:  Removing National Boundaries
date:   25/12/2023
---

### inTerpret

It’s interesting to note that after His resurrection, Jesus did not heal anyone else nor address another general audience. His own public ministry was completed at His death, and He took the time to give comfort and a few final instructions to His closest followers before ascending to heaven.

In Matthew 28:18, Jesus declared that He had been given “all authority… in heaven and on earth.” Notice that the authority was not given to the disciples directly. The authority was given to Jesus through His victory over the grave. Jesus promises that His disciples will not be left alone; His presence would be close beside them wherever they go (v. 20), and through His abiding presence, He gave them His power and authority. When the disciples would “go,” they would not need to fear. Even when going into the most hostile regions, they would go backed by the highest Authority and the greatest Power in the universe.

Matthew ends his book by sharing that the good news of Jesus is to be shared with everyone regardless of nationality or background, an idea that was offensive to first century Jews who had an exclusive, elitist mindset. The commission is to go to “all nations” (28:19), a call that is echoed from Matthew 24:14. This core value, of reaching all nations with the good news of Jesus, firmly established Christianity as the first international religious movement.

The gospel commission removes national boundaries and sets a precedent for a multi-racial, multi-ethnic movement. Regardless of nationality or ethnicity Christians are part of the same family and share the same missional vision (Gal. 3:28). When we’re truly converted, the desire to share the gospel is a calling that cannot be ignored and cannot be restrained by any social divider. Ellen White echoed the Christian’s outward focus in The Desire of Ages: “Every true disciple is born into the kingdom of God as a missionary” ([Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1898], 195). Biblical Christianity removes the barriers of race, nationality and social customs. As Christians we are called to focus on a common mission; to make Jesus known to the world. In order to accomplish this we must overcome national and regional bigotry and demonstrate Christ-like love. We have a world to reach.

Matthew 28:20 introduces an essential aspect of the Great Commission: teaching. God wants us to love Him with our hearts and our minds (Mark 12:30). He wants us to pursue an intelligent faith. The process begins with discipleship, progresses to baptism, and continues to more teaching. Discipleship means teaching through mentorship and coaching. Notice that the new believer learns before baptism and continues learning after baptism. There is no true religious experience without instruction in major biblical truths.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why do you think Jesus didn’t make any major public appearances after His resurrection?`