---
title:  Out of our Comfort Zone
date:   27/12/2023
---

### inVite

Jesus’ closing words in Matthew have echoed through the centuries, inspiring countless generations of Christians to live dangerously, risk all, and take the gospel to new frontiers. His travels covered a relatively small geographical area across distances that today would take less than two hours to drive, yet He instructed His disciples to go into every nation in the world. This instruction tells us that He expected His disciples to extend the work farther than He did during His earthly lifetime (see also John 14:12).

A leader is often judged by their legacy, and the work the church has accomplished since Jesus left shows the enduring impact He continues to have today. The mission work that has taken place through the centuries is one evidence of the power behind the message. Countless sacrifices have been made, many giving their very lives, to push the gospel into new and unreached areas.

Jesus spent a lot of time in public ministry, but He spent even more time simply living with His disciples, teaching them, and preparing them for this global mission. Through the ministry of discipleship Jesus demonstrated the importance of succession planning. It is important to train and equip others, who may have less experience or natural talent, to function as future leaders within the movement. In a sense, the church is running a relay race in which every runner needs to prepare to pass the baton of responsibility to the next runner. Perhaps the most important thing that successful church-planters, missionaries, evangelists, administrators, and local church leaders can do is share responsibility with the next generation and mentor them in the work.

We must never forget that the work entrusted to us is not about human achievement. Our work is the work of the heart. Jesus declared in Matthew 22:37 that the greatest commandment is to “love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.” We’re to love God with our whole being, which should remind us that knowledge alone isn’t enough; we need a daily renewal of our hearts so we can faithfully share God’s Word. This daily baptism of the Holy Spirit results in a very intimate relationship with God—a close relationship built on trust and loving companionship. As our trust in God deepens, we will be inspired to live on the edge. The disciples certainly gained boldness as they traveled to new frontiers in Europe, Africa, and Asia with all but one of them dying a martyr’s death.

What risks is God calling you to take? How is God calling you to engage in His work, whether at home or in a distant place? I urge you not to delay, even if His call takes you out of your comfort zone and into a difficult area. He will provide for you. Our church was founded with a total commitment to Jesus, His mission, and His message, and the work will end with no less commitment. God is looking for people who are totally dedicated to Him. Will you step out?

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What are some ways we can begin small when it comes to going and sharing the gospel?`

`What are some excuses we tend to make when we read the Great Commission? What excuses do you make?`

`What are some ways to find missionary opportunities, whether it be in your community or overseas?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`