---
title:  inQuire
date:   29/12/2023
---

### inQuire

Share insights from this week’s memory verse and Bible study as well as any discoveries, observations, and questions with your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group). Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

`Our early missionaries went to unreached countries with an unpopular message. How does this compare to our vision of missionary work today?`

`How does connecting God’s power with the Great Commission affect your understanding of our ability to fulfill it?`

`Do you think all the disciples understood the scope of the commission when it was given? Why or why not?`

`What does the type of people included in Jesus’ genealogy in Matthew say about the kind of people God uses for His work? How should it inspire hope for us?`

`What stories of non-Jews are included in the book of Matthew? What does this indicate about the ultimate reach of Jesus’ mission?`

`Why do you think we see fewer missionaries in our church today?`

`Do you think the church has done a good job of fulfilling the teaching part of the Great Commission both before and after baptism? Why or why not? What are some ways we could improve?`

`What role does the local church play in the Great Commission?`

`Is the Great Commission just for pastors and evangelists? How does it apply to the regular church member?`

To watch some short videos on this topic please check the following links:

https://lineagejourney.com/video_episodes/27-jn-andrews-the-ablest-man-in-our-ranks

https://lineagejourney.com/video_episodes/36-the-birth-of-adventism-in-new-zealand

https://lineagejourney.com/video_episodes/37-the-birth-of-adventism-in-australia-and-sanitarium

https://lineagejourney.com/video_episodes/45-anna-knight-pioneer-missionary 