---
title:  Future Rewards
date:   18/03/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Hebrews 11:6; Romans 6:23; Revelation 21; Matthew 25:14–19; Romans 8:16–18.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘The master answered, “You did well. You are a good servant who can be trusted.You did well with small things. So I will let you care for much greater [more important] things. Come and share my happiness with me” ’ ” (Matthew 25:21, ICB).

Oour good behavior can’t save us. At the same time, God promises us to honor people who accept Jesus and His holy life. This promise encourages us to live holy lives now.

David understands that God wants us to live holy lives and to obey His law. That’s why David writes, “The Lord’s teachings are perfect. They give strength to his people. The Lord’s rules can be trusted. They help even the foolish become wise. The Lord’s laws are right. They make people happy. The Lord’s commands are good. They show people the right way to live. Learning respect for the Lord is good. It will last [continue] forever. The Lord’s judgments [decisions] are right. They are completely [always] fair. His teachings are worth more than pure [the best] gold. They are sweeter than the best honey dripping from the honeycomb. His teachings warn his servants, and good things come to those who obey them” (Psalm 19:7–11, ERV).

The Bible talks about the things God promises us because of Jesus. We will get these rewards after the Second Coming. What rewards are we promised? How can we be sure that

God will give us these rewards?