---
title:  God Rewards Our Faith
date:   19/03/2023
---

`Read Hebrews 11:6. What does this verse teach us about faith? What does God reward? Now read Revelation 22:12; Isaiah 40:10; and Isaiah 62:11. What do these verses also teach us about God’s gift?`

God’s gift to His children is very special. As with many spiritual things, we may not understand everything about this gift now. “As humans, we can’t find words to explain God’s gift for His people. Who can understand this gift? Only the people who go to heaven. Our human thinking is limited. So, for now, we can’t fully understand the beauty of our home in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 675, adapted.

Jesus talks about the gift waiting for us in heaven, too: “ ‘People will insult you and hurt you. They will lie and say all kinds of evil things about you because you follow me. But when they do that, know that great blessings belong to you. Be happy about it. Be very glad because you have a great reward waiting for you in heaven. People did these same bad things to the prophets [Old Testament preachers] who lived before you’ ” (Matthew 5:11, 12, ERV).

In Hebrews 11, Paul gives us a list of Bible heroes who showed a lot of faith in their lives. Many of these people suffered for their faith, just as Jesus talked about in Matthew 5:11, 12. They all died. But before they died, they believed God would wake them up from the dead some day. In Hebrews 12, Paul talks about the reward, or joy, that Jesus got. Paul explains that this joy is why Jesus wanted to die on the cross for us.

“So we have many people of faith around us. Their lives tell us what faith means. So let us run the race that is before us and never give up. We should remove from our lives anything that would get in the way. And we should remove the sin that so easily catches us [causes us to make wrong choices]. Let us look only to Jesus. He is the one who began our faith, and he makes our faith perfect. Jesus suffered death on the cross. But he accepted the shame of the cross as if it were nothing. He did this because of the joy that God put before him. And now he is sitting at the right side of God’s throne” (Hebrews 12:1, 2, ICB).

God’s reward for our faith is not the same thing as our saving ourselves by our good behavior. If we can save ourselves by our works, why did Jesus need to die on the cross?