---
title:  Everlasting Life
date:   20/03/2023
---

The Bible teaches us that we must choose between everlasting life and everlasting death (Deuteronomy 30:19). This death also is named the second death. We will not wake up from this death.

`Read Romans 6:23 and John 3:16. What choices do these verses tell us that we have?`

If you are reading this guide, you may have made your decision already. Or maybe you are thinking about it. God can do whatever He says He will do. He can keep all His promises. We must do our part, too. We must believe God can do what He says. We must trust in everything Jesus did for us. We must obey God’s commandments by faith.

`Read John 14:1–3. What does the Lord tell us to do in verse 1? What does the Lord promise to us in verses 2 and 3?`

Jesus said these words when His work on earth almost was finished. He wanted to give His followers courage and hope. Jesus’ words fill us with hope and courage, too. His words give us strength during tough times. Jesus came from heaven. He went back to heaven. He promises us, “ ‘I will come back. Then I will take you with me, so that you can be where I am’ ” (John 14:3, ERV).

Jesus’ waking up from the dead at His First Coming is a promise that He will come back. Without the Second Coming, what good is the First Coming? We know that Jesus died for us on the cross. So, we can be sure of His promise to come again.

`Jesus’ First Coming is a promise to us that He will come again. What happened at the First Coming that makes the Second Coming a promise we can trust? (Read 1 Corinthians 15:17–20 for the answer.)`