---
title:  The New Jerusalem
date:   21/03/2023
---

By faith, Abraham saw the city of New Jerusalem. “Abraham was looking for a city which will last [continue] for ever. It was the city God planned and made” (Hebrews 11:10, WE). The New Jerusalem is God’s masterpiece. God built this city for the people who love and obey Him. God’s people will live in the New Jerusalem in heaven for 1,000 years. After that, God will move the New Jerusalem to this earth when He makes our planet new again. Then God’s people will live on the earth forever. Now that’s good news for people who hate packing and moving. God takes care of everything! John says he saw the city: “I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem. It was coming down out of heaven from God. It was made ready like [the same as] a bride is made ready for her husband” (Revelation 21:2, NLV).

`Read Revelation 21. What are some of the things in this chapter that God promises us?`

We are sinners. So, we have trouble understanding fully everything that God promises us. But we understand a little. That small understanding gives us hope!

1\. Jesus will live with us on the new earth, just as He lived with us on earth at His First Coming. During His First Coming, people saw Jesus face-to-face. We will have that chance again (Revelation 22:4). But things will be better because there won’t be sin anymore. So, we will be able to understand and know Jesus better than we do now.

2\. God “ ‘will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death, sadness [feeling sad], crying, or pain. All the old ways are gone’ ” (Revelation 21:4, ERV). Wow! This promise is so wonderful!

3\. The river of life will flow from the throne of God. The tree of life grows on both sides of the river. God’s people will “see his face” (Revelation 22:4, ERV). Look at what we are promised again. The saved ones will live with God. We will know Him in a way we don’t know Him now.

`Read Revelation 21:8, about the sins done by the ones who will die the second death. Some people who did these same sins are saved. So, why are the people in Revelation 21:8 lost? How are the two groups different?`