---
title:  What Did You Do With My Money?
date:   22/03/2023
---

In Matthew 25, Jesus talks about what will be happening in the church just before He comes back. Jesus shares three picture stories about the church. One of these picture stories is about a rich man who went on a long trip. He left some of His riches with his servants to manage wisely. The picture story is about how God expects His people to wisely use His gifts for Him.

`Read the picture story about the money managers in Matthew 25:14–19. Who does the man give his money to? What important Bible truth does verse 19 show us?`

We sometimes think that gifts or talents only are natural gifts. We name them natural gifts because we are born with them. These gifts include singing, communicating, and so on. But God’s gifts are so much more than these things (also read Luke 19:12–26). Ellen G. White says, “God showed me that we don’t understand everything there is to know about the picture story about the talents [in Luke 19:12–24]. Jesus told this story to His followers. The lesson in this story is important for Christians living today, too.Yes, the talents are a word picture for the gifts of preaching and teaching. But the talents also show us the gifts of money that God gives His people.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 197, adapted.

`Read Matthew 25:20–23. What does God say to money managers who supported His work? Why does God say, “ ‘ “Come and share my happiness with me” ’ ” (Matthew 25:23, ERV)? What do these words mean?`

What if someone has more money and talents than we do? Should God expect more work from this person and less work from us? The picture story in Matthew 25:24–30 shows us that this idea is wrong. The person in the story with only one talent is the one who loses the kingdom. So, don’t worry about what God asks other people to do. Let us ask God how we can serve Him best with the gifts He gives us.

`What will you say when God asks you, “ ‘[What] did [you do] with [My] money’ ” (Matthew 25:19, ERV)?`