---
title:  Getting The Prize
date:   23/03/2023
---

`Read what Paul wrote in Romans 8:16–18. Paul knew that he was God’s child. How did this Bible truth help Paul stay loyal to God and obey Him?`

Paul wanted the reward God promised to His children who believe in Him. This reward kept Paul excited about serving God. That’s why Paul wasn’t afraid to suffer for God. When Paul was in prison, he wrote: “Brothers and sisters, I know that I still [continue to] have a long way to go. But there is one thing I do: I forget what is in the past and try as hard as I can to reach the goal [prize] before me. I keep running hard toward the finish line to get the prize that is mine because God has called [invited] me through [by] Christ Jesus to life up there in heaven” (Philippians 3:13, 14, ERV).

`Read 1 Timothy 6:6–12. We already looked at these verses before. But they are worth reading again. What is the important message for us in them?`

The Bible teaches us that we should be happy with what we have. God will give us what we need when we need it. We must not live only to collect a lot of stuff. God promises us, “God will give you everything you need. He has wonderful riches in heaven because of Christ Jesus” (Philippians 4:19, WE). We also need to be thankful for everything God has given us.

God doesn’t promise us that we all will be rich and have a lot of stuff. If we live holy lives, we will suffer. But God does promise to give us everything we need. He promises to be with us wherever we go. In the end, God will give His obedient children riches from heaven and everlasting life. This future reward is so wonderful!

Near the end of his life, Paul had the faith to say, “My life is being given as an offering for God. The time has come for me to leave this life here. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have served the Lord faithfully [with faith]. Now, a prize is waiting for me . . . the crown that will show I am right with God. The Lord, the judge who judges rightly [is always fair], will give it to me on that Day. Yes, he will give it to me and to everyone else who is eagerly looking forward to his coming” (2 Timothy 4:6–8, ERV). May we stay excited, too. Let us have the same faith in our hearts as Paul.