---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/03/2023
---

Read the important rules for good managers below. As a church, what if we followed all these rules? Can you imagine that church in your mind?

1\. Pastors and local church leaders will teach members the important rules about being good managers.

2\. Church members follow these important rules in their lives. The members become more giving. They save often so that they will have money for emergencies and for other expenses they do not expect. Church members no longer are “slaves” to credit cards, loans, and debt. Debt is money that you owe.

3\. Church members show that God has changed their lives. They don’t spend too much. They are happy with what they have. Money is not their “god.” The church grows strong in its friendship with God.

4\. Church members will trust in God and not worry about money. They have grateful hearts. They are happy with everything God gives them.

5\. Married church members learn to solve their problems with God’s help. Church members expect to meet with God when they come to church. They also expect God to work with them.

6\. The church members give enough offerings to support all the work that the church does in the community and worldwide. The church has a strong outreach program to the local community. The church shows God’s love in real ways to people who need help.

The question we all must ask ourselves after reading this list is: “What is God asking us to do with whatever gifts He gives us?”

**Discussion questions**:

`In class, talk about these two Bible teachings: (1) we are saved by God’s mercy because of faith and (2) God gives us a reward for all the things we did for Him in this life. Why are both Bible teachings true?`

`We must learn to be happy with what we have. Does that mean we can’t try harder to get a better job that makes more money? Explain.`