---
title:  The “Change” of the Law
date:   05/05/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘ “He will speak against the Most High and oppress his holy people and try to change the set times and the laws. The holy people will be delivered into his hands for a time, times and half a time” ’ ” (Dan. 7:25, NIV).

**Heroes, Capes, and the Law**

**Introduction**: Dan. 7:25

> <p></p>
> “ ‘ “He shall speak words against the Most High, / and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, / and shall think to change the times and the law; / and they shall be given into his hand / for a time, times, and half a time” ’ ” (Dan. 7:25, ESV).

It’s difficult to write new, fresh, and creative content about the law of God. What can I say that hasn’t been said a thousand times before?

As I look at the world around me, I see so many yearning for a hero— for hope. Even within my own church, it seems as if people could use some hope sometimes. When we . . . when I picture a hero, usually it’s a fit, good-looking man or woman in an outfit that makes them stand out from everyone else. They usually have some sort of symbol that means something to the rest of the world, that symbolizes the hope that they bring. Some of these heroes even have entire fandoms dedicated to them.

Sometimes I wonder whether the law could ever be a symbol of hope to us, like the S is on the chest of you-know-who. Granted, the law is no hero in itself—I’ve seen people even make it out to be a villain. But what if it could be a beacon of hope? And yet, to compare the law to an imaginary hero and its industry would be a gross devaluing of its sacredness.

So how can we find hope within the law? We can’t. The law is only an arrow to point us to the character of our true Hero, Jesus. He is the only One who can give us hope. Strangely enough, there’s one part of the law, of that arrow, that this dark and twisted world wants to change. It’s the part of the arrow that points us in the right direction—the arrowhead so to speak. It’s the part of the law that separates the Ten Commandments from every other moral code out there. It is the part of the law that commands us to rest. In this busy and complicated world, the Sabbath is like a refuge for us. That little crucial piece of the arrow that the world attacks is the piece that tells you and me to rest in Jesus.

No, the Sabbath isn’t exactly glamorous or fashionable (and we could debate its potential for a fandom), but this week as we explore together this arrow and its arrowhead, maybe, just maybe, it can point us in the direction of our Hope and toward the Light in these last few dark days.

_Casey Vaughn, Lapeer, Michigan, USA_