---
title:  The Great Adventist Biblical Error
date:   06/05/2018
---

**Evidence**: Daniel 7

In Daniel 7, four beasts are mentioned from verses 1 to 7, and each of the four beasts gets one verse. The lion, the raised bearlike beast, the leopardlike beast, and the dreadful beast all receive the same one-verse treatment. If we consider the horns a fifth power, then the ten horns plus the little horn also only get one verse; thus, in the entire sequence, the earthly kingdoms in Daniel 7:1–8 receive only one verse each. Because of this, we can conclude that these powers are important, but they are only relatively important because the descriptions of the beasts finish quickly.

However, notice the number of verses Scripture dedicates to the activities of Heaven. The Ancient of Days is described in verse 9; in the same verse, He seats Himself on a throne to judge—which is biblical code for intervene in human affairs—and then His activities are described in verses 10–14. So to compare, each power got one verse for itself, but the divine activities of the Ancient of Days and Son of Man received a total of five verses.

Human powers are important but not that important in Daniel 7.

But divine activities? They are very important, so they get much more emphasis.

So what can I prove from this?

The Bible devotes more words to describing the actions of Heaven than the actions of human powers in this passage and in all apocalyptic passages. And this is important to note because biblical presentations should do the same; they should do the same because when we emphasize the power of God to intervene in human affairs, we are filled with awe at the might of our Lord. Moreover, we are encouraged and comforted, for we know that human powers have importance in changing history, but the Ancient of Days is the most important changer of history—both for the world and for you and me.

**React**

`1. What is the significance of the divine activities described in Daniel 7:9– 14 as they relate to the war the little horn wages against the Most High?`

`2. The Bible is clear that God intervenes in human affairs. In what ways do you see God intervening in human affairs today—both globally and personally?`

_Bryant F. Rodriguez, Minnesota, USA_