---
title:  The Sabbath After the Sabbath?
date:   09/05/2018
---

**How-to**: Is. 66:18–24; Jer. 17:19–27

The seventh-day Sabbath is very important to God. It is the stamp of His government, and there is so much more to the Sabbath than just worshiping on the “right day.” To experience the Sabbath fully, you must dedicate your life to the Lord. This dedication includes your time, your resources, and your mind. The Sabbath is not kept for the things that we do; it is kept as a result of the transformation of our hearts. The spirit of the Sabbath does not commence or end within the 24-hour period. It goes beyond it and reaches into our lives throughout the week.

Time. When I was younger, I felt burdened by the 24-hour period of sunset to sunset. I couldn’t do what I wanted, so the Sabbath was more of a frustration than a delight. What made the difference was how I used my time during the week. If I dedicated my time throughout the week to the Lord and His service, I found it to easier to have a “Sabbath” mentality during the time of rest. If I did not, I usually saw the Sabbath as disrupting my everyday tasks. How much time do you spend with the Savior each day? Reflect with Him on ways you spend time that may be a detriment to your Sabbath experience.

Resources. The Sabbath is not only a day to rejoice and delight in the rest that God gives to us but a day to share, a day of relief for the people of God. Seeing the Sabbath as a means of helping others shifts our mentality to one of service and selflessness. Jesus used the Sabbath to heal the sick and give vision to the blind. We, too, can help others to recuperate their sight and lead them to the everlasting Savior.

Mind. The Lord desires our hearts. In the Bible, the heart is not the organ that gives life; it is directly associated with the mind. In the last days, those who “keep the commandments of God and have the faith of Jesus” will inherit everlasting life. Jesus said that those who follow Him have the law in their hearts. When we dedicate our week to the Lord and spend time with Him in His Word and in prayer, the Spirit will bring our minds into unity with His purposes, and we will maintain the spirit of the Sabbath in our daily lives.

**React**

`1. Does the Sabbath still burden you? Why?`

`2. How can we keep the spirit of the Sabbath every day?`

_Jose Briones, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_