---
title:  The “Change” of the Law
date:   10/05/2018
---

**Opinion**: Dan. 7:25

For many centuries, different denominations of Christianity (Baptist, Catholic, Seventh-day Adventist, etc.) have celebrated the Sabbath on two different days: Saturday and Sunday. The fourth commandment says that the seventh day is the holy day.

Many Christians believed that the Sabbath law had changed when in fact it hadn’t. Joseph Bates, a Seventh-day Adventist author, stated, “I understand that the SEVENTH day Sabbath is not the LEAST one, among the ALL things that are to be restored before the second advent of Jesus Christ, seeing that the Imperial and Papal power of Rome, since the days of the Apostles, have changed the seventh day Sabbath to the first day of the week!”* This quote indicates that the changing of the Sabbath law is not a minor mistake—it is a major mistake.

Daniel 7:25 states, “He will speak against the Most High and oppress his holy people and try to change the set times and the laws.

The holy people will be delivered into his hands for a time, times and half a time” (NIV). One of the signs of Christ’s second coming is an increase in lawlessness. People will do whatever they want, not paying heed to God’s laws. Those who know Saturday is holy but do not, or did not, keep it holy have disobeyed one of God’s laws. God does not favor lawlessness because it is a sin.

Accepting Jesus as your Lord and Savior is necessary to go to heaven, but this relationship will result in keeping His commandments— even the fourth commandment. God has rules and order in His Word (the Bible) that we must follow if we claim to be His people and Him to be our Lord.

**React**

`1. Why is the day of the Sabbath so important to God?`

`2. Is there more to Sabbath than it being a day of rest and gathering with fellow believers?`

<sup>* Joseph Bates, The Seventh Day Sabbath, A Perputual Sign, From the Beginning to the Entering Into the Gates of the Holy City, According to the Commandment, 2nd ed. (Fairhaven, MA: New Bedford Press of Benjamin Lindsey, 1847), accessed May 14, 2017, http://biblelight.net/bates.htm.</sup>

_Kent Earl Taylor III, Coral Springs, Florida, USA_