---
title:  Remember
date:   11/05/2018
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 12:6, 7

**Conclude**

“Do not think that I came to destroy the Law or the Prophets. I did not come to destroy but to fulfill” (Matt. 5:17, NKJV). With these words, Jesus expressed the importance of the Law. By fulfilling the Law, Jesus did not abolish it but gave it a fuller meaning. He expanded the Law’s teachings on murder, adultery, marriage, and the Sabbath. In Matthew 12 Jesus taught that He “is Lord even of the Sabbath” (verse 8) and that “it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath” (verse 12, NIV). Our Creator instituted and sanctified the Sabbath for all humanity (Mark 2:27), not to be a burden but to be a delight and a perpetual sign between God and His people. Thus, the Bible assures us that the Sabbath will be kept throughout eternity (Isa. 66:23). God has indeed blessed us with the Sabbath; let us remember it!

**Consider**

- Thinking of a world without laws. Why do we need laws?
- Watching the documentary “Revelation: The Bride, the Beast, and Babylon” on YouTube.
- Watching “Oprah Learns Sabbath Is on Saturday From Adventist Moviemaker” on YouTube.
- Finding five people that you can be a blessing to on the Sabbath day. Make it special. You could sing a song for them, bake some bread, write a “thank you” note, share a GLOW tract, give them flowers, prepare a special meal, enjoy nature together, etc.
- Listening to the song “Remember the Sabbath to Keep It Holy” by the Pillar of Faith Singers.

**Connect**

1. Psalm 92.
2. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chapter 36, “The Impending Conflict”; The Desire of Ages, chapter 29, “The Sabbath.”

_Esther Nanasi, Saginaw, Michigan, USA_