---
title:  The Life of Wisdom
date:   24/01/2018
---

One of the most beautiful stories in the Bible is found in the story of Solomon’s request to God, to give him above all things “an understanding heart to judge Your people, that I may discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this great people of Yours?” (1 Kings 3:9, NKJV).

`What important words did God say to Solomon that, had he heeded, would have spared the king the ruin that his possessions brought upon him? Why was what God said to him here so important for all of us? 1 Kings 3:14; see also 1 John 5:3, 1 Pet. 4:17.`

Solomon had great wisdom, but wisdom in and of itself, if not acted upon and lived out, becomes nothing more than good information. In the biblical sense of the word, wisdom not acted upon is not truly wisdom. Many will be lost who will have had plenty of correct information about God and His requirements. But Solomon’s lack of obedience caused him to stray from the paths to which the Lord had called him. Only later in life did he truly come to his senses, writing in humility: “For wisdom is better than rubies, and all the things one may desire cannot be compared with her” (Prov. 8:11, NKJV).

Wisdom is the application of knowledge and understanding. Knowledge represents the facts; understanding represents discernment; and wisdom comes in the process of applying our understanding and knowledge to our lives. A wise steward needs not just knowledge and understanding but the experience that comes from living out that knowledge and understanding.

Solomon’s example shows us how easily even the wisest and most understanding of people can get swept up in the emptiness of a materialist lifestyle if that person doesn’t live out the knowledge that he or she has been given.

`Compare 1 Corinthians 3:19 and Proverbs 24:13, 14. What is the difference between the two kinds of wisdom talked about in these texts? Share your answers with class on Sabbath.`
