---
title:  Further Thought
date:   26/01/2018
---

A steward operates from the twin principles of duty and love. “Remember that duty has a twin sister, Love; these united can accomplish almost everything, but separated, neither is capable of good.” - Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 62. Duty is love in action. We need only to dwell on Christ’s sacrifice in order for love to awaken our duty.

In contrast are the principles of the world: hate and its twin, rebellion. Rebellion can be hate in action. Lucifer rebelled against God (Ezek. 28:16, 17) and will never stop doing so until he is destroyed. He turned the authority of love into the love of authority. The religious leaders of Israel hated the authority and power Jesus possessed (Matt. 22:29). Even when they fled the temple or withdrew from His piercing gaze, they did not change their ways.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. Dwell more on this idea of love and duty. What does Ellen G. White mean when, after calling them twins, she says that one without the other is not “capable of good”? What does love look like without duty, and what does duty look like without love? Why must they both be together?`

`2. The memory verse for this week reads: “Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death. . . . He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like foliage” (Prov. 11:4, 28, NKJV). What is the meaning of this text? What is it saying about riches and what is it not saying?`

`3. In class, discuss the life of Solomon. Ask how he could have gone so far off track. Look through the book of Ecclesiastes for texts that help reveal the futility and emptiness of worldly possessions, even when we have, like Solomon, so many of them. What have we learned this week about prayer, about Bible study, and about a relationship with Christ that can keep us on the right track spiritually?`

`4. How can people who do not have a lot of worldly possessions nevertheless still be caught in the trap that Satan sets for them? What answer did you come up with in regard to Wednesday’s final question about the different kinds of wisdom?`