---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/08/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Good Samaritan,” pp. 497–505, and “ ‘The Least of These My Brethren,’ ” pp. 637–641, in The Desire of Ages; “ ‘A Great Gulf Fixed,’ ” pp. 260–271, and “ ‘Who Is My Neighbour?’ ” pp. 376–389, in Christ’s Object Lessons.

“Christ tears away the wall of partition, the self-love, the dividing prejudice of nationality, and teaches a love for all the human family. He lifts men from the narrow circle that their selfishness prescribes; He abolishes all territorial lines and artificial distinctions of society. He makes no difference between neighbors and strangers, friends and enemies. He teaches us to look upon every needy soul as our neighbor and the world as our field.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 42.

“The standard of the golden rule is the true standard of Christianity; anything short of it is a deception. A religion that leads men to place a low estimate upon human beings, whom Christ has esteemed of such value as to give Himself for them; a religion that would lead us to be careless of human needs, sufferings, or rights, is a spurious religion. In slighting the claims of the poor, the suffering, and the sinful, we are proving ourselves traitors to Christ. It is because men take upon themselves the name of Christ, while in life they deny His character, that Christianity has so little power in the world.”—Pages 136, 137.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Which is your favorite of the passages studied this week? Why?`

`Look at what Ellen G. White wrote about how a faith that “would lead us to be careless of human needs, sufferings, or rights, is a spurious religion.” Why must we be careful to avoid the easy trap of thinking that because we have the “truth” (which we do), nothing else matters?`

`How do the verses in Thursday’s study show us what having the “truth” also entails?`

Summary: Jesus’ teachings set out a different way of living for those who are citizens and agents of the kingdom of God. Building on the foundation of the Old Testament Scriptures, He echoed and broadened the focus on caring for the poor and oppressed, emphasizing that His followers will live as people of compassion and mercy while they wait for His return.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Desire of Ages_, “The Good Samaritan,” pp. 497–505.