---
title:  Faith And The New Agreement
date:  12/06/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Galatians 6:14; Romans 6:23; 1 John 5:11, 13; Romans 4:1–7; Leviticus 7:18; Romans 5:1.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “No man is called [judged to be] a good man by God because he obeys the law. The holy writings say, ‘Those who are right [accepted] with God shall live by faith’ ” (Galatians 3:11, WE).

HOMER was a Greek poet. He lived about 700 years before Jesus. Homer wrote a famous story named the Odyssey. The Odyssey is about a fighter named Odysseus. Odysseus fights in the Trojan war. Odysseus beats the Trojans and robs their city, Troy. Then Odysseus sails home to Ithaca. The trip home takes ten years. Many awful things happen to Odysseus on the way back home: Sailors fight for control of the ship. His ship breaks apart. There are storms, sea monsters, and other hard times. All these troubles keep Odysseus from getting home fast. Finally, the Greek gods decide that Odysseus suffered enough pain. So, the gods let the tired soldier go back to his home and family. The gods agree that the troubles Odysseus suffered were enough punishment for the mistakes Odysseus made.

We are the same as Odysseus in a way. We are trying to get home. Our home is heaven. But there is one way we are not the same as Odysseus. We cannot suffer enough to earn our way home. Heaven is too far from earth for us to think we can get there by our good behavior. We will make it to heaven only because God shows us His loving favor.