---
title:  The Cross On Calvary 
date:  13/06/2021
---

God saved His people under the old agreement in the same way He saves us under the new agreement: by faith alone. What if our good behavior or anything else saves us? Then God will owe us everlasting life. But God does not owe us anything. Only people who do not understand sin and how bad it is think God owes us everlasting life. If anyone owes anything, we do. We broke the law of God. So, we must pay the price for breaking it. Of course, we never can pay. But praise God, Jesus paid the price for us.

“Men and women must try to understand more fully the death of Jesus for them. When they do, the saving plan of God will become more important in their lives. Then people will think more about Calvary. These thoughts will fill the heart of the Christian with love for God. Their lips and hearts will be filled with praise to God and to the Lamb, Jesus. Pride cannot live in our hearts when we think about what happened at Calvary. . . . Who can measure the love Jesus felt for sinners as He hung on the cross and suffered for our sins? No one can measure this love.

“Jesus showed that His love was more powerful than death. Jesus saved humans as He hung on the cross. There, He fought an awful war against Satan and his evil angels. But the love of Jesus grew stronger for humans. Then the Father hid His face from Jesus. Jesus cried, ‘My God, My God, why have you left Me alone?’ Finally, Jesus cried out at the end of His fight with evil, ‘It is done.’ It was as if everything that Jesus made heard and felt these words.

“Our hearts should be touched deeply by what happened at Calvary. You have good reason to get excited about this topic. Jesus was excellent in every way. He was innocent in every way too. He suffered a painful death. He accepted the punishment for the sins of everyone on earth. Our minds never will understand His experience on the cross fully. We should do our best to fill our minds with thoughts about His love anyway. His love will touch the spirit. His love will make our feelings holy. His love will change us fully in every way.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, pages 212, 213, adapted.

`Think about the quotation above from Ellen G. White. Now read Galatians 6:14. Then ask yourself, How can I “brag about . . . the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ” (NIrV)?`