---
title:  The New Agreement And The Blood Of Jesus 
date:  14/06/2021
---

`Read 1 Peter 1:18, 19. What does Peter mean when he says Jesus bought us?`

Peter says we were bought with the blood of Jesus. The idea of “buying” helps us remember the way slaves were made free in Bible times. Slaves were made free in Bible times when someone paid a price for them. Often the person paying the price was a family member. In the same way, Jesus bought us from the slavery to sin and death. Jesus paid the price for our freedom with His precious blood. All the Bible agreements are built on this Bible truth. Without the blood of Jesus, the agreements with God are worth nothing. Without the blood of Jesus, God cannot keep the deal He made: to give everlasting life to everyone who believes.

`Look up these verses: Romans 6:23 and 1 John 5:11, 13. What same message do all these verses show?`

We have the promise of everlasting life because of Jesus. Only Jesus can fix the problem that caused us to lose everlasting life in the first place. How did Jesus fix the problem? He lived and died for us. His holy life is the only thing that can pay the price we owe to God for breaking His law. This price shows us that the separation sin caused between us and God is very big. What if an angel or a human can pay the price for our breaking the law of God? Then the law of God is not worth very much, right? Only Someone who is the same as God Himself can pay the price. Only God Himself can make us free from the punishment we earned when we broke the law. Blood makes the promises of the agreement legal. God needs blood to keep His promises to us. Because of blood, God can promise us everlasting life. He also can buy us from sin and death.

`Make a picture of this story in your mind: a child in an art museum throws a balloon filled with ink at a famous painting. The ink spoils the painting. The painting is worth millions of dollars. The parents of the child are poor. They cannot hope to pay the price that is owed. How does this story help us to understand the sin problem and why we cannot hope to fix it ourselves? Why is the Lord Himself the only One who can pay the price we owe?`