---
title:  'The Faith Of Abraham: Part 1'
date:  15/06/2021
---

**Abram believed the LORD. The LORD was pleased with Abram because he believed. So Abram’s faith made him right [accepted] with the LORD” (Genesis 15:6, NIrV).**

Genesis 15:6 is one of the most powerful verses in the Bible. this verse shows us the most important Bible truth: that we are saved by faith alone. God accepts us because of our faith in Jesus, His Son. Moses wrote this Bible truth many thousands of years before Paul wrote about it in Romans. Here is proof that God saves us in the same way, from Eden until now.

Genesis 15:6 helps us understand that the faith of Abram is very big. He believes in the promise of God. God will give Abram a son, even if Abram is too old to have one. The faith of Abram shows us he understands that he is helpless in every way. His faith also shows us we must give ourselves fully to God. We must not trust ourselves. This faith leads us to fully obey God in everything. Abram had this faith. God accepted Abram because of it.

`Why does the Bible say that “Abram’s faith made him right [accepted] with the LORD”? Was Abram himself holy or right with God before God accepted him? What does Abram do not long after God announces that Abram is accepted with the Lord?`

Abram lives a life of faith and obedience. But Abram does not always live a life of perfect faith and perfect obedience. At times, Abram shows he is weak in both things. (Is that the same as anyone you know?) So, we see that God accepts us because of our faith and not because of our own good behavior. God forgives our past sins. More than that, God replaces the record of our past sins with the holy life of Jesus. So, now the obedience and faith of Jesus replace our old life of law breaking. Then God looks at us and sees Jesus and His perfect life. That is why God can announce that we are holy in His eyes. God does this with Abram. God will do the same thing for everyone who comes to Him with “the faith of Abraham” (Romans 4:16, KJV).

`Read Romans 4:1–7. Look at what Paul says in Romans 4:1–7 about Genesis 15:6. Pray over these verses. Write in your own words what these verses say to you.`