---
title:  'The Faith Of Abraham: Part 2'
date:  16/06/2021
---

Let us look at Genesis 15:6 in different Bibles. The NLV says, “Then Abram believed in the Lord, and that made him right [accepted] with God.”  The NLT writes it this way: “And Abram believed the LORD, and the LORD counted [announced; accepted] him as righteous [holy] because of his faith.” These verses show us how God makes us right with Him. We believe the Lord. Then God replaces the past record of our life of sin with the perfect life of Jesus.

Moses uses these words “made right” in other verses in his writings. In these verses, Moses shows us examples of people or things that are “accepted” or “thought of” as something they are not. In one example, Rachel and Leah say their father “think[s] of us as strangers” (Genesis 31:15, NLV). Of course, Rachel and Leah are really his daughters. In another example, Moses talks about the offering that the Levite must bring to God. Moses tells the Levite, “your offering will be considered [accepted by God] as if you gave grain [corn]” (Numbers 18:27, NIrV). Of course, the offering is really not corn.

`We are not born holy. But God accepts us as holy because of our faith in His Son. Write in your own words what this wonderful Bible truth means to you.`

The important truth of the Bible is that God accepts us as holy. We are accepted as holy because of our faith in the things Jesus does for us. We are not accepted as holy because of anything we ourselves do. This is what being made holy by our faith in Jesus really means. But does our faith itself make us holy? Of course not! Our faith allows God to give us the perfect life of Jesus. This Bible truth is the most beautiful teaching in all of Christianity. This teaching is a beautiful mystery that we cannot fully understand. So, we must accept this teaching in faith. All we believe as Christians comes from this wonderful teaching. God accepts us as holy in His eyes by our faith in His Son, Jesus. Everything else in the Christian life comes from this beautiful Bible truth: our obedience, living a holy life, becoming the same as Jesus in our hearts, and showing other people His love.

`What if someone says to you, “I want to be a Christian so much. But I do not feel holy.” How do you answer him or her?`