---
title:  Trusting In The Promises 
date:  17/06/2021
---

There is a story about the famous Cardinal Bellarmine. A cardinal is an important religious leader in the Roman Catholic Church. All his life, Cardinal Bellarmine fought against the Bible truth that God saves us only because of our faith in Jesus. God does not save us because of our own good behavior. As Cardinal Bellarmine lay dying, someone brought him a crucifix. A crucifix is a cross with a carving of Jesus on it. Cardinal Bellarmine was also offered the good works of dead Catholics to help him feel safe before he died. But Bellarmine said “Take those things away. I think it is better to trust in Jesus and his death for me on the cross.”

Many people are the same as Cardinal Bellarmine. At the end of their lives, they look back over their pasts. They see how foolish and useless their own good behavior and actions were. These things cannot save them or earn them everlasting life with a holy God. These people see how much they need the holy life of Jesus to save them.

The good news is that we do not need to wait for death to come for us before we feel sure that Jesus saves us.

**Look up the verses below. Then answer the question asked with each verse about how we keep our friendship with God strong:**

`1. Psalm 34:8 (How can you “taste” that God is good?)`

`2. Matthew 11:30 (What has Jesus done for us that makes accepting His teachings easy and serving Him easy too?)`

`3. Romans 5:1 (Jesus brings us back to God. Jesus makes it possible for us to be friends with God again. How does this work that Jesus does for us bring us peace?)`

`4. Philippians 2:7, 8 (What has the life and death of Jesus given you?)`

`Ask yourself: What am I doing now to make my friendship with God stronger? What am I doing to hurt my friendship with God? What changes do I need to make?`