---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/06/2021
---

**The sinner can be accepted by God only by faith. The sinner brings to God the perfect obedience of Jesus. The Lord accepts the perfect obedience of Jesus in place of the disobedient life of the sinner. God accepts the holy life of Jesus in place of our mistakes. God accepts and pardons us. Then God announces that we are holy. God accepts us as if we did not sin. God loves us as He loves His own Son. This is how God accepts us by our faith.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 367, adapted.**

“We must turn from sin and by faith accept Jesus as our Savior. Then the Lord will pardon our sins. He also will not punish us for breaking the law. We stand in front of God as innocent. God gives us His favor. We now have fellowship with the Father and the Son. The Holy Spirit makes this fellowship possible.

“Then God does another work in our lives. He makes us holy. He makes us in our hearts the same as Jesus. This work happens over a lifetime. We must be made holy by Bible truth. This work also happens by our faith. Only the loving favor of Jesus can change our lives and make us holy. Jesus gives us His loving favor because we believe in Him.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, page 191, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How is living faith different from a faith that is dead? (Read James 2:17, 18 for the answer.) What does Paul say a living faith is? (Read Romans 16:26 for the answer.) What do Paul and James show us is the most important part of our faith?`

`We are saved only by the perfect life of Jesus. We are not saved by anything we do. So, some people think that we can behave any way we want. Why does what we do matter? How can you answer the person who thinks we can do whatever we want because our good behavior cannot save us?`

`“God accepts us only because of His Son. Our good behavior is possible only because of the love of Jesus for us. His love pardons our sins. Our good behavior does not earn us anything with God. God does not reward us with everlasting life because of any good thing we do. . . . The Christian cannot bring His behavior as an offering to God and ask God to save him.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, page 199, adapted. Think about this quotation from Ellen G. White as you answer this question: Why is our good behavior so important to our Christian experience?`

**Summary**: Old agreement, new agreement: Jesus paid the price we owed to God for breaking His holy law. So, now we can stand holy in the eyes of God.