---
title:  'Abraham: A Witness for God'
date:   21/10/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 18:1–15; Genesis 18:16–33; James 5:16; Genesis 19:1–29.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘I give you a new command: Love each other. You must love each other as I have loved you. All people will know that you are my followers if you love each other’ ” (John 13:34, 35, ICB).

From the start, Abraham wanted to work with God to save sinners. We see this Bible truth in Genesis 18. In this chapter, God warns Abraham that Sodom and Gomorrah will be destroyed. Why does God share this information with Abraham? The Bible tells us: “Before the Lord God does anything, he tells his servants the prophets [God’s special messengers]” (Amos 3:7, ICB). In the story about Sodom and Gomorrah, God’s prophet is Abraham.

While Abraham rests during the hot part of day, he sees three travelers. Abraham invites them to be his guests. “Abraham thought his three guests were only tired travelers. Abraham had no idea that among them was Someone he could worship. Abraham’s worship of this Person was not a sin.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 138, 139, adapted.

Abraham got involved in God’s work. He prayed for the people in Sodom and Gomorrah. He asked God to save them. If saving people isn’t what God’s work is about, what is? In Genesis 18, Abraham did three things: he showed his guests hospitality, he showed love for sinners, and he prayed. We should do these things when we do God’s work, too.