---
title:  The Gift Of Hospitality
date:   22/10/2023
---

`Read the story in Genesis 18:1–15. How does Abraham show hospitality to his guests?`

Abraham sat in the doorway of his tent when the day was very hot. Abraham’s behavior is a bit odd. At that time of day in summer, the sun was high in the sky. So, everyone wanted to rest under a shady tree with a fresh breeze. Why, then, was Abraham waiting in the hot sun? Maybe he wanted to be ready to help anyone who passed by.

While Abraham sat in the doorway of his tent, he saw three travelers. Abraham liked to offer hospitality to strangers. So, he ran to them. This part of the story is important: Abraham made the decision to meet the travelers first before they came to him.

Abraham told the strangers, “ ‘I will bring some water to wash your feet. You can rest under the trees. I will get some food for you, and you can eat as much as you want. Then you can continue your journey.’ ”

Abraham knew what he needed to do. The Lord wanted him to share with everyone His knowledge about God. The earth was filled with people who worshiped nature and many gods. As we can see from this story, Abraham did God’s work by offering hospitality to these three strangers.

Many people learned about God from Abraham. Abraham “had many servants. More than 1,000 people served Abraham. They were all part of Abraham’s family. Many of these servants worshiped the Lord. Abraham needed to be firm and wise to manage a family group this big. . . . Abraham’s faith touched the lives of many people beyond his family group. Wherever Abraham camped, he built an altar for God next to his tent. When Abraham moved his tent to another place, he left the altar behind. Many Canaanites who traveled the land stopped at the altar to make an offering to God. These Canaanites learned about God from Abraham and how he lived.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 187, adapted.

From the start, Abraham understood that God chose him to help Him save sinners. Abraham knew that he wasn’t going to the Promised Land for a vacation. He went there to be a blessing to the people around him and to everyone on earth.

`Think about Abraham’s example of hospitality. How can you show this same hospitality to the people in your life?`