---
title:  Abraham’s Love For Everyone
date:   23/10/2023
---

`Read Genesis 18:16–33. How did Abraham show his love for all people from every family group or race group?`

Genesis 18 shows us that Abraham loved people. Abraham also loved strangers. Abraham’s love is an important lesson for each of us. The people from Sodom and Gomorrah were sinners. They didn’t follow God or behave the same as Abraham. Abraham’s heart was filled with love for them and for everyone else, anyway. Abraham’s love for people didn’t depend on who they were, what language they spoke, or their religion.

God tells Abraham about His decision to destroy the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. “Then the Lord said, ‘I have heard many times that the people of Sodom and Gomorrah are very evil. I will go and see if they are as bad as I have heard. Then I will know for sure’ ” (Genesis 18:20, 21, ERV).

Abraham’s heart is empty of all pride when he answers God. Abraham’s words are filled with respect for God. “ ‘May You never do such a thing as to destroy the good with the bad! May the good never be punished like [the same as] the bad! You would never do such a thing! Will not the Judge of all the earth do what is right?’ ” (Genesis 18:25, NLV).

Abraham hoped his love for the people in Sodom and Gomorrah would save everyone in the cities, and not only the good people. For sure, Abraham knew that the people who lived there were very evil. Who knows what stories he heard about their terrible behavior and their sins? From what we know about the people from Genesis 19, we understand that they were very evil people. (Read in Genesis 19:1–11 about Lot’s story and the crowd outside his house.)

Abraham knew God’s love. So, he asked God to show mercy to the people in Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham knew that people can change. They can come to God and ask for forgiveness. Abraham knew that as long as someone is alive, there is always hope that God can save this person.

`Why is praying for other people so important in our spiritual lives? How can praying for people who are in need help our spiritual lives to grow? How can our prayers for people help us understand more about God’s love for sinners?`