---
title:  Praying With The Faith Of Abraham
date:   24/10/2023
---

`Read Genesis 18:23–32 and James 5:16. What do these verses teach us about praying for other people? Why is our praying for people a powerful spiritual experience?`

The conversation between God and Abraham is a symbol or a word picture for our prayers for other people. Abraham is a symbol for Jesus. Jesus stands in front of God the Father and asks Him to help us. In the same way, Abraham asks God to save the people in Sodom and Gomorrah. We will have success in our work for God only if we pray for people as Abraham prayed.

Abraham learned to love the people in Sodom and Gomorrah. He also loved the people in the other cities nearby. Because of Abraham’s love, his prayer was honest and caring. Abraham already fought against some kings who beat the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah in war. After Abraham won, Bera, the King of Sodom, came to meet Abraham. Bera asked for freedom for his people: “ ‘Give me the people. Keep everything else for yourself’ ” (Genesis 14:21, NIrV). Bera shows us with these words that he loves his people very much. Abraham loved the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah. He prayed for them and their people because his heart was filled with love. “Abraham loved sinners. His love for them caused him to pray for them to be saved.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 140, adapted.

Abraham’s heart was empty of all pride. His prayers were without pride, too. Abraham never gave up. He kept trying to save people until the end. First, Abraham asked God to save the city of Sodom as long as 50 holy people lived there. When God agreed to what Abraham asked for, Abraham continued to ask for more.

Our work for God can’t succeed without prayer, including prayer for other people. After we meet someone or give a sermon or Bible study, we must pray for them. God will hear our prayers. God will touch the hearts of the people we meet. Our words will not change the hearts of our friends or the people we meet. Only the Holy Spirit can do that. Our job is to pray for each person whose life we touch in the work we do for God.

`Read Romans 8:34 and Hebrews 7:25. What do these verses say that Jesus does for us? How can this Bible truth help us better understand why we must pray for people?`