---
title:  Abraham’s Work For God
date:   25/10/2023
---

`Read Genesis 19:1–29. What good things happened because of Abraham’s hospitality, love, and prayer?`

Genesis 19:1–29 gives us an interesting hint about the work that Lot did in the city of Sodom: “Lot was sitting near the city gate” (Genesis 19:1, ICB). In Old Testament times, only leaders, judges, and kings were permitted to sit in the gate of a city (read 2 Samuel 19:8; Jeremiah 38:7; Ruth 4:1). So, this verse shows us that Lot was an important person in the city. At the very least, he was a public leader.

Many things that we saw happen in Genesis 18, in the story about the angels with Abraham, also happen in Genesis 19, with Lot and the visitors. Both Abraham and Lot sat at an entrance or gate (Genesis 18:1; Genesis 19:1). Both Abraham and Lot invited the strangers to come rest (Genesis 18:3; Genesis 19:1). Both Abraham and Lot made food for their visitors (Genesis 18:4–8; Genesis 19:3). Whatever weaknesses and bad habits Lot had, he was friendly and nice to strangers.

“Then the Lord poured fire from the heavens upon Sodom and Gomorrah. He destroyed those cities, and all the valley, and all the people of [in] the cities, and what grew on the ground” (Genesis 19:24, 25, NLV).

We don’t know how many people lived in Sodom and Gomorrah at the time that God destroyed those cities. We do know that only four people left Sodom, and only three of them were saved. The same with the Flood in Genesis. We don’t know how many people lived before the Flood. But we know that most of them were not saved.

The small number of people from Sodom who were saved is a warning to us in our work for God. Not everyone whose life we touch will be saved. Of course, we want everyone to accept Jesus and be saved. At the same time, we must remember that each person has free choice. Our job is to invite as many people as possible to make the choice for Jesus. God will send His Holy Spirit to help us. But God will never force anyone to accept Him or go against someone’s free choice. Free choice means that the people we pray for are saved or lost because of their own choice.

`What if we don’t see any change in the lives of the people we pray for? How can we learn not to lose hope?`