---
title:  Surrendering Ourselves To God’s Control
date:   26/10/2023
---

`Read Genesis 12:1–9. What do these verses teach us about surrendering ourselves to God’s control? What if we aren’t sure about what He wants us to do? Or what if the work He gives us is hard?`

Abraham teaches us that we must surrender the control of our lives to the Lord. Let’s look at three experiences in Abraham’s life where he surrendered to God’s control.

**Work**: God gave Abraham (named Abram in this first experience) a hard task: “The Loordrd said to Abram, ‘Leave your country and your people. Leave your father’s family and go to the country that I will show you’ ” (Genesis 12:1, ERV). When Abraham heard the voice from heaven, did he pay no attention to it? Or did he tell God, “I don’t want to go anywhere. I like where I am living”? No, Abraham obeyed God. Abraham may have thought that “the country that I will show you” was a strange way to talk about a place! But Abraham went anyway. He surrendered himself to God and left his father’s house and his country: “So Abram left as the Lord told him to do” (Genesis 12:4, NLV).

**Choice of land**: The servants of Lot and Abraham started fighting. Abraham didn’t want fighting. He surrendered himself to God and did what God wanted him to do. God blessed Abraham again. “After Lot left, the Lord said to Abram, ‘Look around you. Look north, south, east, west. All this land that you see I will give to you and your people who live after you. This will be your land forever” (Genesis 13:14, 15, ERV).

**Sodom and Gomorrah**: After God tells Abraham what will happen to Sodom and Gomorrah, what does Abraham do? Abraham’s heart is filled with love. So, he tries to save the cities. Sad to say, there aren’t 10 holy people in Sodom and Gomorrah. So, God destroys them. Abraham surrenders to God and accepts God’s final decision to destroy these evil cities.

The Lord used Abraham because he surrendered his heart and life to God. We must do the same today.

`Task #1: What problems do we have when we preach the Good News in cities? Ask God to help us solve these problems.`

`Task #2: Do you know someone who is having a hard time? Pray for this person. Ask God to show you how you can help.`