---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/10/2023
---

“Abraham loved sinners. His love for them caused him to pray for them to be saved. Abraham hated the sins that the people in Sodom did. At the same time, he wanted sinners to be saved. Abraham is our example. He shows us how much we should care about sinners. We must hate sin, but we must love the sinner. People all around us are lost. They have no hope. Their lives are being ruined. What happened to Sodom will happen to them. Every day, someone’s chance for everlasting life comes to an end. God’s saving mercy can no longer touch their hearts. Where are the people who should be warning these lost ones about the danger they are in? Where are the hands that will pull these sinners back from death? Where are those people who have the faith to ask God to save these lost ones?

“The spirit of Abraham was the spirit of Jesus. The Son of God is our Helper. He goes to God for the sinner. Jesus paid the price for our sins. He knows how much each one of us is worth. Jesus’ heart is clean and holy. He hates sin as no one else can. This same Jesus showed love to us sinners that can come only from the holy heart of God. While Jesus suffered on the cross, He prayed for the people who hated Him and put Him there. Jesus, who accepted the awful weight of all our sins, prayed for the ones who caused His pain: ‘Father, forgive them. They don’t know what they are doing.’ Luke 23:34 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 140, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Can you think of other Bible examples of people who followed God’s plan for their lives? What about John the Baptist? Was John’s work a success?`

`Read Genesis 19:30–36. What do these verses tell us about the people who were saved from Sodom?`

`What other lessons about working for God can we learn from the example of Abraham?`

`Think about this question: Was Abraham’s prayer for Sodom and Gomorrah a success? Or did Abraham fail? Explain your answer.`