---
title:  The War Behind All Wars
date:   30/03/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Revelation 12:7–9; Revelation 12:4; Genesis 3:1–3; The Great Controversy, chapters 29–30.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then there was fighting in heaven. Michael and his angels fought with the dragon. The dragon and his angels fought back. But they did not win the fight and no longer were they allowed to stay in heaven” (Revelation 12:7, 8, WE).

If God is so good, why is the earth filled with sin? How can a God of love allow so much evil to happen? Why do bad things happen to good people? In this week’s lesson, we will look at the war between good and evil. This fight has been happening for a long time. We will begin our study with Lucifer’s fight against God in heaven. We will study how evil started. We also will learn how God has been very patient with sinners while He solves the sin problem.

God is love (1 John 4:7, 8). God shows His love in everything He does (Jeremiah 31:3). God won’t force anyone to love Him. Ellen G. White explains how love works: “If you want people to love you, you must first love them.”—The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted. What if God forced us to love Him? Then we aren’t free. If we aren’t free, we really can’t be happy. But God doesn’t destroy our free choice. God wins our hearts with His love. God also works to end the war between good and evil so that sin won’t happen again. God wants to show everyone He has always done what’s best for them. God’s work in the war against good and evil gives us hope. In the end, good will win over evil forever.