---
title:  The Fight In Heaven
date:   31/03/2024
---

`Read Revelation 12:7–9. What do these verses show us about how evil started? Was there freedom in heaven before Lucifer sinned? When Lucifer fought against God, what did God do? What did God choose NOT to do? Why do you think God chose not to destroy Lucifer right away?`

Revelation 12:7–9 shows us the war between good and evil. Lucifer and his angels fought against Jesus. In the end, God threw Lucifer and his angels out of heaven. Heaven is a perfect place, right? So, how did fighting start in heaven? Did a loving God make an evil angel? What caused Lucifer to fight against God?

`Compare Ezekiel 28:12–15 with Isaiah 14:12–14. What do these verses teach us about Lucifer? What happened in his heart and mind that caused him to fight against God?`

The Bible explains how evil started. God didn’t make the devil. God made a perfect angel named Lucifer who was bright and beautiful. God also made Lucifer free to choose. Free choice is an important part of God’s government in heaven. God accepts only our love. He never forces anyone to serve or love Him. We can’t explain why a perfect angel allowed pride and jealous feelings to fill his heart. These evil feelings grew in Lucifer until they caused him to fight against the One who made him.

Lucifer sinned because he wanted angels to worship him. God is the only One we should worship. Lucifer caused many angels to doubt God and His law. Then Lucifer tried to steal God’s throne for himself.

God was very patient with Lucifer. But God refused to allow Lucifer to ruin the peace in heaven with his lies and fighting. “God tried to save Lucifer. Jesus Himself showed Lucifer that the One who made Him was powerful, good, and fair. Jesus also showed Lucifer that God’s law can’t be changed. God Himself made the law in heaven. If Lucifer refused to obey it, then he showed no respect to God. God warned Lucifer in love and mercy. But God’s warning filled Lucifer with hate. His disobedience ruined him.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 494, 495, adapted.

`What lessons can you learn about God from the way He solves the problem of sin and evil?`