---
title:  Lucifer’s Lies
date:   01/04/2024
---

No one can explain why Lucifer, a perfect angel, allowed pride and jealous feelings to grow in his heart. These feelings caused him to fight against God. Lucifer accused God. Lucifer said God wasn’t fair. Lucifer’s lies filled the hearts of many angels with doubts about God.

`Read Revelation 12:4. What does this verse teach us about Lucifer and his lies? Was he a skillful liar? How many angels did Lucifer trick?`

When war started in heaven, the angels needed to decide: Should they follow Jesus or Lucifer? What was this war in heaven all about? Was it a real war with weapons? Or was this war fought only with ideas and words? Or did the angels fight this war with a combination of weapons and words? We don’t know. We do know that God finally threw Satan “down to earth from heaven . . . and his angels were thrown down with him” (Revelation 12:9, NLV). “No longer were they allowed to stay in heaven” (Revelation 12:8, WE). Because God threw Satan and his angels out of heaven, we can see that the war included some type of real fighting.

We can say one thing for sure about the war in heaven. Every angel needed to decide for or against Jesus. The loyal angels chose to obey Jesus and His loving commands. But 1/3 of the angels listened to Lucifer. These angels disobeyed God. They lost their home in heaven. We, too, must decide for or against Jesus in this important time in earth’s history. We, too, must choose whose side we are on: Jesus’ or Satan’s.

`Read Genesis 2:15–17; Exodus 32:26; Joshua 24:15; 1 Kings 18:20, 21; and Revelation 22:17. What important rule do these verses teach us?`

God made us free to think and to choose. We can choose between right and wrong. This gift from God makes us human and not robots or animals. God invites His people to love Him and obey His law. He wants us to choose to serve Him.

`What does the war in heaven teach us about our own personal fight with evil? Satan tricked holy angels into believing his lies. So, how much more can he trick sinners?`