---
title:  Planet Earth Joins The Fight
date:   02/04/2024
---

When God made the earth, He made it perfect. The Bible tells us, “God looked at everything he had made. And he saw that everything was very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). There was no sin or evil anywhere. God gave Adam and Eve the same freedom of choice that He gave to Lucifer. God didn’t want robots on earth any more than He wanted robots in heaven!

God planted a tree in the Garden of Eden. God named this tree “the tree that gives knowledge about good and evil” (Genesis 2:17, ERV). God told Adam and Eve not to eat the fruit from this tree. God wanted to make sure that Adam and Eve knew they had a choice.

Satan came to the tree. As Eve came near, Satan told her a sneaky lie about the fruit: “ ‘You will not die. God knows that if you eat the fruit from that tree, you will learn about good and evil. Then you will be like [the same as] God!’ ” (Genesis 3:4, 5, ICB). Satan told Eve that she would become very wise. The fruit would thrill her with pleasure she had not known before. Satan told Eve that God was keeping something good from her. So, Satan told Eve to take the forbidden fruit for herself and eat it. Then she would know everything that God was keeping from her.

When Eve, and later Adam, made the choice to eat the forbidden fruit, they opened a “door” to something God wanted to keep shut forever. What was that door? The door to sin, suffering, broken hearts, sickness, and death.

`Read Genesis 3:1–3; Romans 3:23; and Romans 5:12. What same thing do each of these verses teach us? What does sin do to the human family?`

Sin is war against God. Sin separates us from God, too. God is life. In the end, separation from God leads to death. Sin also causes worry, suffering, sickness, and disease. The pain we suffer in this life comes from living on a planet that sin has hurt and ruined.

`Read Genesis 3:15; Leviticus 5:5, 6; and John 1:29. What promise did God give Adam and Eve in the Garden after they ate the fruit? How did this promise give them hope? What did God do for Adam and Eve after they sinned? How did this offering help them to understand how God would solve the sin problem?`