---
title:  A Powerful Reason To Hope
date:   03/04/2024
---

After Adam and Eve sin, God tells them they must leave their garden home. From now on, their lives will be filled with hard work and suffering. Will they only suffer and finally die with no hope? Is death the end of everything?

God gives Adam and Eve a promise. We can read about it in Genesis 3:15. God tells Satan, the snake, “ ‘I will make you and the woman hate each other. Your children and her children will be enemies. Her son will crush [break into pieces] your head. And you will bite his heel’ ” (Genesis 3:15, NIrV). Maybe Adam and Eve didn’t fully understand what this promise meant. But they knew that God gave them hope again. God promised to send One of the children of “the woman [the church]” to save them (Genesis 3:15, NIrV).

This Child of the woman, of course, is Jesus Christ (Galatians 3:16). At the cross, Satan hurt or “bit” Jesus, the same as a snake bites. But Jesus won. His win is a promise. God will smash Satan, or the snake’s head, into pieces. Then God will close forever the “door” to suffering that Adam and Eve opened. No one will open that “door” again.

`Read Hebrews 2:9; Galatians 3:13; and 2 Corinthians 5:21. What do these verses tell us about Jesus’ death for us on the cross?`

Do you ever wonder if God really loves you? Look at the cross! Look at the crown made from thorns! Look at the nails in Jesus’ hands and feet! With every drop of blood that spilled from Jesus’ body, God says to us, “I love you. I don’t want to be in heaven without you. Yes, you’ve sinned. You sold yourself to Satan, the enemy. Yes, you can’t earn everlasting life with your own good behavior. But I paid the price to get you back.” You never need to wonder again if God loves you when you look at the cross.

The Bible says that Jesus came to this earth to be one with us. He had painful experiences the same as you and me. He felt sad. He got his heart broken. Jesus understands all of our troubles. He won the fight against the fallen angels in His life and on the cross. He died for each one of us.

Think about it: the Bible teaches that Jesus made everything (read John 1:3). This same Jesus left heaven and came to this earth. He suffered in ways none of us will (read Isaiah 53:1–5). Why? Because He loved us, each of us. His love gives us a powerful reason to hope!