---
title:  Our High Priest, Or Spiritual Leader
date:   04/04/2024
---

Jesus won the fight against sin for us at the cross. Because He won, He can help us in heaven as our High Priest. Jesus gives us everything we need to be saved so that we can go to heaven and live with God forever.

`Read Hebrews 4:15, 16 and Hebrews 7:25. How do these verses help us to have hope in a life that is so often filled with suffering, sickness, and death?`

Jesus was “tempted [Satan tried to get Him to sin] in every way, just as we are. But he did not sin” (Hebrews 4:15, NIrV). So, “let us, then, feel free to come before [in front of] God’s throne. Here there is grace [mercy and strength to stop sinning]. And we can receive [get] mercy and grace to help us when we need it” (Hebrews 4:16, ICB).

Jesus saves us with His life and His death. He bought us with His blood. Jesus also will live in our hearts. He will not punish us for the sins we did in the past. Jesus removes our guilt. He goes to God to get help for us to fight against sin. Jesus breaks the hold that sin has on our lives. He makes us free.

`Read John 17:24–26. In the worldwide war between good and evil, what does Jesus want more than anything?`

“After Jesus offered Himself for our sins, He went to heaven. He refused to allow the angels to worship Him until He went to God the Father first. Jesus said, ‘Father, I want the people that you have given me to be with me.’ John 17:24 [WE]. The Father sat on His throne. He answered Jesus with love: ‘Let all God’s angels worship him.’ Hebrews 1:6 [ERV]. Jesus was free from any sin. Now His suffering was over. His offering was finished. God gave Him a name that is more important and powerful than anyone else’s name.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 501, 502, adapted.

More than anything, Jesus wants us to be with Him in heaven. Do you have a special need in your life? Tell Jesus. Are you sad? He will make you feel better. Are you afraid? He will give you peace. Are you guilty? He will forgive you. Do you feel weak? Jesus will make you strong.