---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   05/04/2024
---

“When God threw Satan out of heaven, He judged Satan. God’s work as Judge was fair. God threw Satan out of heaven to protect His government. When man sinned, God gave him proof of His love: God offered His only Son to die for sinners. The cross shows us God’s love. The cross is proof to angels, humans, and the holy people on other planets that God and His government can’t be blamed for Lucifer’s sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 500, 501, adapted.

“The cross of Calvary is proof that God’s law can’t be changed. The cross announces to everyone in heaven and on earth that sin causes death. When the Savior cried, ‘It is finished’ (John 19:30, ERV), Satan’s future was ­decided. God would end evil. That’s why the Son of God died and woke up from the dead. Jesus died so that ‘he could destroy the one who has the power of death. That one is the devil.’ Hebrews 2:14 [ICB].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 503, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God knew that Lucifer was going to fight against Him. So, why did God give Lucifer free choice? Or, when Lucifer fought against God, why didn’t God destroy Lucifer at that time? What would have happened if God destroyed Lucifer right away? How do you think the holy angels and the people on other planets would have felt about God if He killed Lucifer after the war in heaven? The people on other planets are very interested in God’s plan to save us (1 Peter 1:12; Revelation 5:13; and Revelation 16:7). What part do the people on other planets have in the worldwide war between God and Satan? And how does their part help us better understand this war?`

`What do the words “the worldwide war between good and evil” really mean? What did we learn about the war this week? What lessons did you learn for your own life from our study this week?`

`What Bible verses talk about the worldwide war between good and evil? (Hint: read Job 1; Job 2; Ephesians 6:12.)`