---
title:  God’s Servant, Job
date:   09/10/2016
---

```Read Job 1. Focus specifically on Satan’s accusations against Job. What is Satan saying? What’s implied in his attacks? Who, in the end, is Satan really attacking?```

“ ‘Have You not made a hedge around him, around his household, and around all that he has on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land’ ” (Job 1:10, NKJV). The book of Job opens by referencing not only Job’s righteous- ness and good character but also his material blessings and fruitful household. These were the specific things that helped make Job revered as “the greatest of all the men of the east” (Job 1:3, NASB). And these, too, are the specific things that Satan hurls in God’s face, saying basi- cally, “Only because You have done this for him does he serve You.”

What, then, is implied in Satan’s charge that if God were to take these things away from Job, Job would “ ‘surely curse You to Your face’ ” (Job 1:11, NKJV)? The attack, really, is an attack against God Himself. (This is what the whole great controversy is about anyway.) If God were so wonderful, so good, then Job would obey and fear and worship Him out of love and appreciation alone. After all, who wouldn’t love a God who had done so much for him? In a sense, Satan was saying that God had all but bribed Job into being faithful to Him. Thus, he claimed, Job served God not out of love for God but out of his own selfish motives.

Think about some of the most nasty and hateful political rulers who have faithful cronies loyal to the death because this ruler was good to them. If, in fact, the Lord really was the kind, loving, and caring God that He is portrayed to be, then even if Job lost all those good things, Job would still serve the Lord. By claiming, however, that Job wouldn’t stay faithful, Satan insinuates that even Job doesn’t fully trust Him and that Job is loyal only because of what God has given him. That is, in the end (according to Satan) Job’s loyalty pretty much depends on whether it’s a good business deal for him.
    
```Why do you serve the Lord? Suppose your motives aren’t perfect. If you had to wait until your motives were perfect (if they aren’t), what might happen to you and your faith?```