---
title:  Blessed Be the Name of the Lord
date:   11/10/2016
---


```After Satan’s first attack on Job, after the news came to him about all the calamities that befell him, how did Job respond? (See Job 1:20–22.) What is the significance of the fact that, even amid such tragedy, Job “sinned not, nor charged God foolishly”?```

Central to God’s government, a government based on love, is free- dom of choice. God wants us to serve Him because we love Him, not because we are forced to serve Him. “Satan insinuated that Job served God from selfish motives. . . . He attempted to deny that true religion springs from love and an intelligent appreciation of God’s character, that true worshipers love religion for its own sake—not for reward; that they serve God because such service is right in itself, and not merely because heaven is full of glory; and that they love God because He is worthy of their affection and confidence, and not merely because He blesses them.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 500.

In the book of Job, Job proved Satan’s charges wrong. However, though God knew what would happen, Job still could have acted dif- ferently. He could have sinned, he could have “charged God foolishly.” God did not force Job to act as he did. Job’s steadfast faithfulness, considering the circumstances, was an amazing testimony before men and angels.

```Compare what happened in Job 1 to what happened with Adam and Eve in Genesis 3:1–8. How does the contrast make their sin appear so terrible?```

Adam and Eve, sinless beings amid a true paradise, transgressed and fell into sin because of Satan’s attack; Job, amid utter pain and tragedy and ruin, stayed faithful to the Lord despite Satan’s attacks. In both cases, we have a powerful example of the great issues at stake in regard to free will.
    
How does Job’s reaction here show us how cheap, easy, and false our excuses for sin can often be?