---
title:  Job’s Wife
date:   12/10/2016
---

This is probably as good a time as any to deal with another victim in the story of Job: his wife. She appears only in Job 2:9, 10. After that, she vanishes from the story and from history. We are told nothing more about her. However, considering all that happened, who could imagine the grief that this unfortunate woman went through? Her tragedy, that of her chil- dren, and that of the other victims in chapter 1 show the universality of suffering. We are all involved in the great controversy; no one escapes.

```Compare Job 2:3 to Job 2:9. What similar phrase is used both by God and Job’s wife, and what is the importance of how they both use it?```

It’s no coincidence that the same phrase about his holding fast his “integrity” appears in both texts. The word translated “integrity” comes from the same word used in Job 1:1 and Job 1:8, often translated “blame- less.”Therootworditselfgivestheideaof “completeness”and“fullness.”

How unfortunate that Job’s wife becomes someone who challenges Job on the very thing for which God commends him. In her grief, in her sorrow, she’s pushing Job to do precisely what God says he won’t do. Though we certainly can’t judge her, what a lesson to us all about how careful we have to be in order not to be a stumbling block to others. (See Luke 17:2.)

```Read Job 2:10. What powerful testimony does Job give here as well? See also Phil. 4:11–13.```

Job reveals the genuineness of his faith. He is going to serve the Lord both in the good times and in the bad. What’s fascinating, though, is that Satan now disappears from the story and doesn’t appear again. And though the text doesn’t mention it, we can imagine Satan’s frustration and anger at Job’s response. After all, look at how easily he took down Adam and Eve and so many others. The “accuser of our brethren” (Rev. 12:10) was going to have to find someone else other than Job to accuse.

```How do we learn to be faithful to God, both in the good times and in the bad?```