---
title:  Further Thought
date:   14/10/2016
---

Students of the book of Job who delve into the Hebrew come across an interesting phenomenon. Job’s wife’s words to him are translated, “ ‘Curse God and die’ ” (Job 2:9, NKJV). Job 1:5 is translated: “ ‘It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts’ ” (NKJV). And Job 1:11 is translated: “ ‘But now, stretch out Your hand and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse You to Your face!’ ” (NKJV). In each case, however, the word translated “curse” comes from a word that means “bless.” The word, from the root brk, is used all through the Bible for “bless.” It’s the same root used in Genesis 1:22, when God “blessed” the creatures He had made. The same root is used in Psalm 66:8, “Oh, bless our God, you peoples!” (NKJV).

Why, then, is the same verb, which means “bless,” translated as “curse” in these few texts? First of all, if the idea of “blessed” were meant in those texts in Job, the texts would be nonsensical. In Job 1:5, why would Job want to offer sacrifices to God in case his sons had “blessed” God in their hearts? The context demands a different mean- ing. The same with Job 1:11 and 2:5. Why would Satan think that if calamity befell Job, he would bless God? The context demands that the meaning be “curse” instead. Also, why would Job rebuke his wife for telling him to bless God (Job 2:9, 10)? Given the context, the text makes sense only if the idea of “curse” is meant.

Why, then, did not the author use one of the common words for “curse”? Scholars believe that it’s a euphemism, because the idea of writing down the concept of cursing God was offensive to the author’s religious sensibilities (we can see the same thing in 1 Kings 21:10, 13, where the word translated “blaspheme” is from brk, “bless”). So, Moses used the word “bless” instead of the actual word for “curse,” even though it’s obvious that the idea of curse was intended.

### Discussion Questions:

- ```In times of crisis, why is it so natural for people to question the reality of God or to question what God is like? Amid the harsh reality of what it means to live in a fallen world, a world in which the great controversy is real, why must we keep the reality of the Cross always before us?```
- ```Though we know the background to what was going on in the story of Job, as far as we can tell, Job didn’t know it. All he knew were the calamities that befell him. He didn’t know the bigger picture. What should this tell us about how, amid trials, we need to remember that there’s a bigger picture that we often don’t see or understand, and how can we learn to draw comfort from this realization?```