---
title:  God and Human Suffering
date:   15/10/2016
---

## Sabbath afternoon

### Read for This Week’s Study:
Rom. 1:18–20; Job 12:7–10; Rev. 4:11; Col. 1:16, 17; Matt. 6:34; Job 10:8–12; Rom. 3:1–4.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble’ ” (Matthew 6:34, NKJV).

Unlike every other book of the Bible, the book of Job is com- pletely removed from the context of the land and people of Israel. From Genesis, with the promise to Abram that the Lord will “make of thee a great nation” (Gen. 12:2), to Revelation, which describes “the holy city,” Jerusalem (Rev. 22:19), in some way, directly or indirectly, the context of Israel and its covenant relationship with God helps shape each book.

In Job there is nothing of that, not even the seminal event in ancient Israelite history, the Exodus. The most immediate reason is that Moses wrote Job in Midian, along with Genesis (see also The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1140); the Exodus had not happened yet, which explains why it’s not mentioned.

But perhaps there’s another even more important reason. One of the key themes of Job, human suffering, is universal. It’s not limited to any one people or time. Jew or Gentile, we all know something of Job’s woes, of the pain of existence in a fallen world. However unique his pain, Job represents us all in our sufferings.

###### * Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, October 22.