---
title:  God in Nature
date:   16/10/2016
---

```Read Romans 1:18–20. What is Paul saying here?```

What a powerful few sentences. Enough of the reality and existence of God is revealed through “what has been made” (NASB), that is, through the created world, that people will be “without excuse” (NASB) for their unbelief. Paul is saying that from the creation alone, humans can learn enough about the existence and nature of God that they can justly be condemned on the day of judgment.

No question, the natural world does reveal much to us about the exis- tence of God. Modern science, too, has revealed to us details about the marvels of Creation that our ancestors, even just 300 years ago, much less 3,000 years ago, could not even have begun to imagine. There’s an interesting irony here, as well: the more complexity science finds in life, the less likely become the means science claims for its origin—that of accident and chance. A smartphone, for instance, which looks designed, acts designed, reveals design both inside and out, and works only through design is, of course, designed. But a human being, which looks designed, acts designed, reveals design both inside and out, and works only through design is, we are assured, a product of pure chance alone. Sadly, many people are deceived into believing such claims.

```Read Job 12:7–10. How do the words here reflect the idea presented in Romans 1:18–20?```

Here, too, we are told that the reality of God is seen in the created world. Though, especially in its fallen state, nature doesn’t reveal the full character of God, it certainly reveals His creative power, and aspects of His goodness, as well.
  
```What things in nature especially talk to you about the power and goodness of God? How can you learn to draw strength and encouragement from the message it gives you?```