---
title:  The Dilemma
date:   19/10/2016
---

```Read the following texts in Job. What issue is Job wrestling with? What question does he not ask? Job 6:4–8, Job 9:1–12.```

As stated in yesterday’s study, the issue of God’s existence never came up in the book of Job. Instead, the question was, Why was Job going through these trials? And, considering all that happened to him, it certainly was a fair question, especially because he believed in God.

If, for example, someone was an atheist and trials were to come, the answer about why could be relatively simple and straightforward to him or her. We live in a meaningless and purposeless world that cares nothing about us. Thus, amid the harsh and cold and uncaring natural forces around us, we sometimes are the victims of trials that serve no purpose. How could they? If life itself serves no purpose, then the trials that accompany that life must be just as meaningless.

While many might find this answer unsatisfying and hopeless, it cer- tainly makes sense given the premise, which is that there is no God. On the other hand, for someone like Job, the dilemma is different.

```Read Job 10:8–12. How do these texts help us to understand the ter- rible questions that Job is wrestling with?```

Yes, the question that Job is wrestling with is the same one that most believers in God have wrestled with and still do wrestle with: If God exists, and He is a good and loving God, why do humans suffer the things that they do? Why do even “good” people, such as Job, go through calamities and trials that so often seem to produce nothing of value? Again, if the universe were godless, the answer would be that this is simply what it means to live in a purely materialistic cosmos in which human beings are merely the accidental by-products of atoms and molecules.

Job knew better than that. We do, too; hence the dilemma.