---
title:  The Most Holy Room And God’s Law
date:   26/05/2024
---

`Read Revelation 11:19; Exodus 25:16; Exodus 31:18; and Revelation 12:17. What do these verses tell us was in the Ark of God’s Promise? In Old Testament times, the ark was in the Most Holy Room in the Holy Tent or Tent of Meeting.`

On the Day When God Removes All Sin, He makes the temple clean. The Israelites had a part to do to get ready for this day. The priests, or spiritual leaders, commanded the people to confess their sins, to search their hearts, and to do no work (Leviticus 23:29–31). On this day, the high priest, or top spiritual leader, entered the Most Holy Room of the Tent of Meeting. There, the high priest put an end to sin. The Ark of the Promise was inside the Most Holy Room. Inside the ark was God’s Ten Commandment Law that was written on two pieces of stone. The ark had a gold cover named the mercy seat. The high priest sprinkled blood on the cover to clean the Tent of Meeting from sin. God’s glory shone above the mercy seat. Every offering the people brought to the priests showed God’s mercy to sinners. These gifts of blood helped the people remember their sins (Hebrews 10:3). The sins of the people can be removed in only one way. They must have faith in the blood of Jesus to clean them from all sin (1 Peter 1:18, 19). In Jesus, God’s mercy and His law join together.

John looked into the temple in heaven. He saw “that God’s temple in heaven was opened. Inside it the wooden chest called the ark of his covenant [promise] could be seen” (Revelation 11:19, NIrV). Ellen G. White adds this explanation: “God put His law inside the Most Holy Room in His temple in heaven. God told His people this same law on Sinai. God wrote a copy of His law with His own finger on two pieces of stone. Moses wrote a copy of the rules of this law in a book. The book that Moses wrote and the stone that God wrote on were exact copies of the first law in God’s temple. When the people understood the connection between the law of Moses and the law in heaven, they saw that God’s law is holy. God’s law does not change.”—The Great Controversy, page 434, adapted.

The Adventists in the 1800s studied the Bible’s teaching about the temple on earth and in heaven. They learned that God’s law and His Sabbath are important. Because John saw God’s law in the Ark of Promise in heaven’s temple, we know that God didn’t get rid of His law when Jesus died.