---
title:  God’s Law Never Changes
date:   27/05/2024
---

`Read Matthew 5:17, 18; Psalm 111:7, 8; Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14; 1 John 5:3; and Proverbs 28:9. What do these Bible verses teach us about the connection between Christians and God’s law?`

Seventh-day Adventists teach that God’s law is holy. Protestant leaders in the past taught the same thing. Read this powerful quote from John Wesley: “Moses gave the Israelites a special law about gifts and offerings. This law came from God. This law explained the rules for offerings and the work done in God’s temple on earth. The Lord came to destroy this law. . . . But Jesus did not remove the Ten Commandments. Jesus did not seek to get rid of any part of this law. The Ten Commandments cannot be destroyed. The law is the same as a loyal witness. . . . Every part of this law must control the lives of all people everywhere in all ages. The truths of the law do not depend on time or place or on anything else that will change. God’s law depends on the love and holy life of God.”—Upon Our Lord’s Sermon on the Mount, Discourse V, John Wesley’s Sermons: An Anthology (Nashville, TN: Abingdon Press, 1991), pages 208, 209.

`Compare Exodus 34:5–7 with Romans 7:11, 12; Psalm 19:7–11; Psalm 89:14; and Psalm 119:142, 172. What do these verses tell us about the connection between God’s law and His love?`

The law of God is a written record of His love. God’s law is a perfect copy of His holy life. God’s law is the foundation of His throne. The law teaches us right from wrong and how to live our lives so that we will please God. No wonder Satan hates the law! “Everyone saw that the temple on earth was a perfect copy of the temple in heaven. They also understood that the law that Moses put inside the ark on earth was an exact copy of the law inside the ark in heaven. They understood the connection between God’s temple in heaven and His law. Whoever kept God’s law holy must also keep the Sabbath, the fourth commandment. Other Christians refused to accept this Bible truth. They didn’t want to keep the Sabbath. So, they refused to accept the teaching about Jesus’ work for sinners in heaven’s temple.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 435, adapted.