---
title:  The Sabbath And The Law
date:   28/05/2024
---

`Read Revelation 14:6, 7; Revelation 4:11; Genesis 2:1–3; and Exodus 20:8–11. These verses teach us that God made the earth in six days. What is the connection between this teaching, the Sabbath, and God’s law?`

Jesus is worthy of our worship. We worship Him because He made us and saves us. God rested on the Sabbath day after making the earth in six days. The Sabbath helps us understand God’s care for us as the One who made us. The Sabbath shows us our Savior’s love. So, the Sabbath helps us understand God’s plan to save sinners.

At the end of making the earth and skies, God rested on the seventh day to celebrate the beauty of the earth He made. God also rested as an example to us. The Sabbath is a short stop we take every seven days to praise the One who made us. As we worship God on the Sabbath, we open our hearts to get the special blessing God placed in that day. God did not place this blessing in any other day.

The Sabbath helps us remember the One who made us. The Lord loves us too much to leave us when we forget about Him or His plan for our lives. The Sabbath is a special sign. When we keep the Sabbath holy, we show that we are loyal to God (Ezekiel 20:12, 20). The Sabbath is a symbol of rest and not works. The Sabbath is a symbol of mercy and not saving ourselves with our own behavior. The Sabbath shows we trust in God to save us and do not depend on ourselves. True Sabbath rest means we trust in God’s mercy. God made us, He saves us, and He is coming again for us.

Revelation 14 is God’s end-time message for everyone on earth. This message invites people everywhere to rest, or trust, in God’s love and care each Sabbath. Revelation 14 also asks us to remember that God made us and to give Him glory. Our keeping the Sabbath is also connected with Eden in the past and the new heavens and the new earth to come. The Sabbath also helps us remember that God will some day make the earth new again.

`Has anyone accused you of trying to earn your way to heaven with Sabbath keeping? Why is the Sabbath a symbol that God made us and saves us? Why would our obedience to God’s command to “rest” cause people to think we were trying to “work” our way to heaven?`