---
title:  The Mark of the Beast
date:   29/05/2024
---

`Read Revelation 12:12, 17 and Revelation 13:7. What do these verses show us about Satan? How angry is he? Why is the devil so angry with God’s end-time people?`

Revelation 12 is an outline of the war between Jesus and Satan from the beginning of earth’s history to the end times. Revelation 13 introduces the dragon’s two helpers: the sea beast and the land beast. These two powers fight alongside the dragon against God’s people.

`Read Revelation 13:4, 8, 12, 15 and Revelation 14:7, 9–11. (Also read Revelation 15:4; Revelation 16:2; Revelation 19:20; Revelation 20:4; Revelation 22:9.) What important idea do you see in each of these verses?`

In the end times, people worship God, or they worship something else. Jesus made us. So, He is worthy of our worship (Revelation 5:9). The war in heaven between Jesus and Lucifer started over worship. Lucifer bragged, “ ‘I will rise above the tops of the clouds. I’ll make myself like [the same as] the Most High God’ ” (Isaiah 14:14, NIrV). Satan wanted to be worshiped the same as God. Only God is worthy of this worship. In Revelation 13, Satan comes up with a plan to get people to worship him. Satan uses the sea beast as part of his plan (Revelation 13:4).

When we compare Revelation 13 with Daniel 7, we see that the sea beast is the same as the little horn. The little horn “will try to change the times and laws that were given by God” (Daniel 7:25, NIrV). What is the only part of God’s Ten Commandments that talks about time? The fourth commandment. The little horn is a symbol for the Roman Catholic Church. This church has tried to change the day of worship from the 7th day to the first day of the week.

God gave the Sabbath as a sign of His control (Exodus 31:13; Ezekiel 20:12, 20). The little-horn power wants to replace the worship of God in our hearts with himself. That is why the final test will be over true and false worship.

Revelation tells us that God’s people will keep His commandments (Revelation 12:17; Revelation 14:12). God’s commandments include the 7th-day Sabbath, and not Sunday. Anyone who refuses to worship God on His holy day (Isaiah 58:13) and worships the beast on his fake sabbath, Sunday, will get the beast’s mark (read lesson 11).