---
title:  The Three Angels’ Messages
date:   30/05/2024
---

In Revelation 14:7, the first angel cries with a strong voice: “ ‘Respect and honor God and give him glory! The time has come for him to judge people, to tell them how good or bad they are. Worship him. He made heaven and earth, the sea, and the rivers’ ” (WE). This message is God’s invitation to everyone on earth to be loyal to Him.

The second angel announces: “ ‘The great [mighty] city of Babylon has fallen down [is destroyed]. It has fallen down because it filled all the countries with its wrong ways. It has made people to suffer God’s anger’ ” (Revelation 14:8, WE). Babylon is a word picture for a worldwide religion that rejects the first angel’s message. That’s why Revelation 14:9–11 warns us against worshiping the beast. These verses show us two choices: (1) worship God, or (2) worship the beast. All people must choose Jesus or Satan. Our decision will be final and can’t be changed.

`Read Revelation 14:12. This verse talks about the ones who refuse to worship the beast. What two things does this verse tell us about these people?`

God will have an end-time people who are loyal to Him. God’s loyal end-time people will suffer more than any other group has suffered for their faith in history. God will give His people His gift of mercy to help them during this terrible time. God’s people will be obedient to Him. How will they show their obedience and loyalty to God? They will keep His commandments. The final test between good and evil will be about the Sabbath.

God’s loyal followers will have faith in Jesus. They also will have the faith of Jesus. The faith of Jesus is a faith so deep and powerful that all the demons in hell and all the trouble and suffering on earth can’t destroy it. When we have the faith of Jesus, we will trust God when we cannot see any reason to trust Him. We will believe when we can’t understand why. We will hope when life looks hopeless. The faith of Jesus is a precious gift. Jesus gives us this gift when we believe in Him. This gift will give us strength during the hard times ahead. Soon we won’t be allowed to buy or sell. We will be attacked, thrown in jail, or killed for our faith. The faith of Jesus will protect us in earth’s final hours until Jesus comes back.