---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   31/05/2024
---

“In the past, many Christians have kept Sunday. They believed they were keeping the Bible Sabbath. There are now loyal Christians in every church, including the Roman Catholic Church, who keep Sunday. These Christians really believe that Sunday is God’s true Sabbath. God accepts their faith. But when governments will make a law in the future to force people everywhere to keep Sunday, everyone on earth will understand the Bible truth about the 7th-day Sabbath. Then whoever breaks God’s commandment to obey Rome will honor the pope above God. At that time, all the people who honor Sunday will be worshiping Rome. They will worship the beast and his statue or false god. God has announced that the Sabbath is a sign of His control. So, when governments make a Sunday law, then any man who rejects the Sabbath and honors Sunday will show that he accepts Rome’s control. When God’s people warn everyone on earth about the Sunday law, then everyone will need to make a choice. They must choose between God’s commandments and the Sunday law, which is the mark of the beast. At that time, the people who continue to sin against God’s law and keep Sunday will get the beast’s mark.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 449, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Life is changing so fast. Every day brings new changes and problems. Why must we always be watching and waiting for Jesus? How can we make sure we are ready for His coming?`

`How do God’s work as Judge and His law help us understand that only His mercy saves us?`

`Do you have friends who keep Sunday and don’t understand why the 7th-day Sabbath is important? How can you share the Bible truth with them?`

`What happens when the government and the church join together? As Christians, what is our duty to our government? What does the Bible teach us?`