---
title:  Paul in Prison
date:   15/09/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 24; Acts 25; Acts 26; 1 Corinthians 1:23.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Paul said, ‘My prayer to God is that you and all who hear me today would be a Christian as I am, only not have these chains!’ ” (Acts 26:29, NLV). 

PAUL IS A PRISONER for two years in the city of Caesarea (Acts 24:27). Paul lives in a prison at King Herod’s palace. Soldiers watch Paul (Acts 23:35). During those two years, Paul goes to court many times to stand in front of two Roman governors and one king. The governors are named Felix and Festus. The king is named Agrippa the Second. Yes, Paul is a prisoner. But Paul does God’s work by sharing the Good News with these rulers (Acts 9:15). 

Every time Paul speaks to these rulers he says he is innocent. Paul says there is no proof that he did anything wrong. Paul asks, Where are the witnesses that saw him break laws? This story shows us Paul did nothing wrong and should not be in prison. He should be free. He is in prison only because he asked to stand in court before the King of Rome (Acts 26:32). As a prisoner, Paul has many chances to witness about Jesus. Paul also talks about his wonderful hope that God will bring the dead back to life.

But the two years in prison are hard for Paul. No one from the Jerusalem church gives Paul any support. Why? The church leaders feel it is Paul’s fault that he is in prison. They believe that Paul “was to blame for the dislike against him.”—The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 403, adapted.