---
title:  Felix Judges Paul
date:   16/09/2018
---

Paul is sent to Caesarea. Five days later, a group of important Jewish leaders comes to Caeserea from Jerusalem. This group includes the top Jewish religious leader, some members of the Jewish ruling group named the Sanhedrin, and a lawyer named Tertullus. These men come in front of Felix in court and complain about Paul (Acts 24:1–9). 

This trial in Acts is the only time the Jewish leaders pay a lawyer to complain for them to a ruler. The lawyer Tertullus uses false praise to make Felix think the Jewish leaders are right. Tertullus says the Jews enjoyed peace for a long time under Felix. That is not true. The truth is Felix hurt more people than any other governor. Felix also took away people’s freedom more than any other ruler. Felix’s behavior filled many Jews with deep hate for Roman rulers. Tertullus is very smart and sneaky. He makes Governor Felix think that he needs to protect himself as a ruler. The best way to do that is to keep Paul in prison.  

Then Tertullus blames Paul for three crimes: (1) Tertullus says Paul is a troublemaker. Tertullus says Paul wants the Jews everywhere to fight against Roman rule too (Acts 24:5). (2) Tertullus says Paul is the top leader of a religious group named the Christians, who are a danger to the Roman Kingdom. (3) Tertullus also says Paul showed no respect for the temple in Jerusalem (Acts 24:6). 

`Read Acts 24:10–19. As these verses show us, how does Paul answer each one of these “crimes” against him?` 

Two things show that the words of the Jewish leaders against Paul are not true. Paul tells Felix what these two things are: (1) There are no witnesses from Asia against him (Acts 24:18, 19). Felix may decide to throw out the whole trial against Paul because there are no witnesses. (2) The Sanhedrin cannot blame Paul for any crime except for his belief that Jesus will wake up the dead and bring them to life at His Second Coming (read also Acts 23:6). 

Felix understands right away that Paul is correct. Felix knows a little bit about Christianity, maybe from his Jewish wife Drusilla. So, Felix decides to stop the trial and continue it some other time. But Felix’s decision shows us that a person can change his mind if other people offer him a good gift or enough money. Paul has no chance for a fair trial with Felix.