---
title:  Festus Judges Paul
date:   17/09/2018
---

Felix holds Paul in prison for two years. Why so long? So Felix can get the Jews to like him. Then Felix leaves. Porcius Festus is made the new governor of Judea (Acts 24:27). Festus ruled Judea from A.D. 60 to 62. 

`Read Acts 25:1–5. How does the Jewish leaders’ behavior in these verses help us see how hate can grow in people who hear the truth but do not want to believe it?`

The Jewish leaders do not want to fail again. They already failed before when they tried to make Felix believe he should punish Paul for crimes Paul did not do. So, the leaders ask Festus to help them during Festus’s first visit to Jerusalem. They ask Festus to send Paul back to Jerusalem so that the Jewish religious leaders can judge Paul in a trial under Jewish law.

The Jewish leaders are careful to hide their real plan when they ask Festus for this favor. What is their plan? They want to kill Paul. Festus is ready to start Paul’s trial again. But Festus says that the trial will happen in Caesarea, not in Jerusalem. That tells us that Paul’s trial will happen under Roman law, not Jewish law.  

When Festus goes back to Caeserea, he starts Paul’s trial again. Paul’s enemies start blaming Paul for crimes (Acts 25:7). Luke does not tell us what crimes they blame Paul for. But we can see from Paul’s answer (Acts 25:8) that the list of crimes is the same list from two years ago. But there is one difference: Paul’s accusers say Paul is a danger to the Roman Kingdom. 

`Read about Paul’s trial in front of Festus in Acts 25:9–12. Paul knows that Festus plans to use Paul to win support for his job as governor. What does Paul do when he sees what Festus is thinking?` 

In the end, Festus is not any better than Felix (Acts 24:27). Festus is not willing to lose Jewish support. So, Festus thinks about sending Paul back to Jerusalem to be put on trial by the Jews. But Paul does not accept this plan. So, Paul asks to go to Rome for a trial there because he is a citizen of Rome. He knows he will not be given a fair trial under the Jewish leaders. Paul escapes this problem when he asks for the King of Rome to judge him.