---
title:  Agrippa Comes To Hear Paul
date:   18/09/2018
---

Festus agrees to allow Paul to go to Rome (Acts 25:12). At the same time, Festus talks about Paul with Herod Agrippa the Second, who is visiting Caesarea at that time. Herod Agrippa the Second is the last member of the family of kings named Herod. Agrippa comes to Caesarea with his sister Bernice to meet the new governor, Festus.

Festus wants to ask Agrippa about what information he should put in his letter to the King of Rome. Festus does not know much about Jewish laws and ways of life. Agrippa can help Festus with any questions he had (Acts 25:23–27).

`Read Acts 25:13–22. What does Festus tell King Agrippa about Paul? How does King Agrippa answer?`

Festus tells King Agrippa that he is surprised that none of Paul’s “crimes” have anything to do with a crime against the Roman Kingdom. Paul’s “crimes” are about Jewish religion and about someone named Jesus who “died but Paul kept saying He was alive” (Acts 25:19, NLV). Paul already told the Jewish religious leaders in Jerusalem that he was on trial because he believed Jesus came back to life from the dead. Now Festus clearly says that the real reason Paul is on trial is because Paul believes Jesus is alive. 

`Read Acts 25:23–27. What does Luke say in these verses about Paul’s stand in front of Agrippa?`

“Paul stood in chains in front of the people. There was a big difference between Paul and everyone else. Agrippa and Bernice had power and royalty. So other people liked them. But they did not have the goodness that God likes. They broke God’s law. They lived lives that were evil. Their hearts were evil too. All of heaven hated their way of life and the things they did.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 434, adapted. 

`People can look very good on the outside to our eyes. But the story about Agrippa and his sister shows us that how we look at people on the outside often fools us about what is really hidden inside their hearts. How is the way something looks different from how it is inside?`