---
title:  Paul Tells Agrippa Why He Is Innocent
date:   19/09/2018
---

Paul is brought to the governor and his royal guests. Paul tells them the reasons why he is innocent of the crimes against him. Paul talks mostly to Agrippa, because Festus already heard what Paul said before (Acts 25:8–11). 

`Read Acts 26:1–23. As these verses show us, what does Paul tell Agrippa?`

Paul tells Agrippa his life story, both before and after he gave his life to Jesus. This sermon is almost the same as the sermon in Acts 22:1–21 that Paul tells the crowd in Jerusalem. Paul starts by trying to get Agrippa’s support. Paul says how thankful he is to Agrippa for letting him tell his story. After all, Agrippa is a very important person. Paul also says he is thankful that Agrippa knows a lot about the Jewish ways of life and the Jewish religion. For that reason, Agrippa can be a big help to the Roman governor. Agrippa can help Festus understand that the crimes against Paul are not true. 

Paul’s sermon can be divided into three parts. In part one (Acts 26:4–11), Paul talks about his old life as a Pharisee. Pharisees were a group of Jewish religious leaders who followed the law very carefully. Many people in Jerusalem know about Paul’s past. As a Pharisee, Paul believes God will wake up the dead and bring them back to life. This teaching is an important part of the Jewish religion. So, Paul says that the Jews do not make sense when they attack what Paul believes, because the Jews believe it too. But Paul understands why they are upset. In the past, Paul himself also had a hard time believing God woke up Jesus from the dead and brought Him back to life. 

In part two (Acts 26:12–18), Paul talks about how his thinking changed after he met Jesus on the road to Damascus. Paul tells how Jesus gave him his work to share the Good News with the non-Jews. Paul ends his sermon by saying that the only choice he had after he met Jesus was to obey Him. That is the only reason Paul is in court now. The reason Paul was arrested is not because he broke Jewish law or showed no respect to the Jewish temple. It is because of his message about Jesus’ waking up from the dead. This belief fits fully with what the Bible teaches. It also allows non-Jews to be saved too.