---
title:  Paul Talks To The Jewish Leaders
date:   20/09/2018
---

Paul talks to Agrippa most of the time. But Festus is the first one to say something (Acts 26:24). Festus seems to have no problem with Paul’s sermon until Paul says that God will wake up the dead. But Paul’s belief that God will wake up the dead does not agree with the Roman belief that the soul does not die. The Greeks and Romans who lived many years before that time knew that these two beliefs did not agree. So, they threw out the truth that God will wake up the dead. They accepted the lie that the soul does not die. That is why Paul says in a letter that the Good News about Jesus sounds silly to non-Jews (1 Corinthians 1:23). 

Paul shows Festus respect when he answers him. Then Paul turns to Agrippa to ask him a question. Agrippa is a Jew. A Jew can understand Paul. A Jew also can say that Paul’s teaching about God waking up the dead matches the teaching in the Hebrew Bible (Acts 26:25, 26).

`Read Acts 26:27, 28. As these verses show us, what is Agrippa’s answer to Paul’s question?`

Paul’s question puts Agrippa on the spot. As a Jew, Agrippa will never turn away from the Hebrew Bible. But if Agrippa says yes to Paul’s question, then he will have to accept Jesus as the Savior. So, Agrippa gives Paul a smart and sneaky answer. It allows Agrippa to “escape” from his trap. “Then Agrippa spoke to Paul. ‘Are you trying to talk me into becoming a Christian?’ he said. ‘Do you think you can do that in such a short time?’ ” (Acts 26:28, NIrV).

Paul’s answer shows us his amazing love for the Good News about Jesus and his deep love for serving God. “Paul said, ‘My prayer to God is that you and all who hear me today would be a Christian as I am, only not have these chains!” (Acts 26:29, NLV). In his last words to everyone at court, Paul does not ask to go free. Paul wishes everyone there could be the same as he is, only not with the chains around his wrists. Paul cares about seeing other people accept Jesus more than he cares about being free! 

`Read Acts 26:30–32. As these verses show us, how does Agrippa’s answer show that he believes Paul is innocent?`

Festus needs Agrippa’s help to write the letter about Paul (Acts 26:25–27). In the end, Paul goes to Rome.