---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   21/09/2018
---

“Did Paul’s words lead Agrippa to think about the history of his family and how they failed in the past in their fight against the same Jesus that Paul was talking about? Did Agrippa think about his great-grandfather Herod, who killed all those innocent children in Bethlehem? Did Agrippa think about his great-uncle Antipas who killed John the Baptist? Did Agrippa think about his own father, Agrippa the First, who put the church leader James to death? Did Agrippa understand that the awful things that happened to these kings were proof that God was not happy with their crimes against His servants? Agrippa’s father was a more powerful king than Agrippa was. Did Agrippa remember the day when his father stood in that same city, Caesarea, and wore his shining robes while the people named him a god? Did Agrippa forget what happened next? Before the crowd’s shouts stopped, God’s anger against Agrippa’s father was quick and awful. Yes, all these things went through Agrippa’s mind. But his proud heart loved the praise and beauty in front of him. His pride destroyed any holier thoughts about God.”—Ellen G. White Comments [thoughts], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 6, pages 1066, 1067, adapted.  

**Discussion questions**

`1.	In class, talk about Paul’s decision to be judged by the King of Rome. Was Paul’s decision right (also read Acts 25:25; Acts 26:31, 32)? How far should we go in making decisions to protect ourselves before we start trusting fully in God’s care?`

`2.	Think about Paul’s words to Agrippa: “ ‘So then, King Agrippa, I obeyed the vision that appeared from heaven’ ” (Acts 26:19, NIrV). What do Paul’s words tell us about Paul? How loyal are we to the work God gives to us Christians?`

`3.	Paul loved people. In his last trial at Caesarea, Paul told the people at court that he wanted very much to see every one of them there become Christians. Paul wanted them to be saved by God’s loving-favor (Acts 26:29). Clearly, Paul wanted to save people with the Good News about Jesus more than he wanted to save himself from prison. How can we learn from Paul’s example?`