---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/04/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Abraham in Canaan,” pp. 132–144 and “The Test of Faith,” pp. 145–155, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“It was no light test that was thus brought upon Abraham, no small sacrifice that was required of him. . . . But he did not hesitate to obey the call. He had no question to ask concerning the land of promise. . . . God has spoken, and His servant must obey; the happiest place on earth for him was the place where God would have him to be.”–Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 126.

When Abram entered Canaan, the Lord appeared to him and made it clear that while he was to sojourn in the land that would be given to his descendants (Gen. 12:7). God repeated this promise several times (see Gen. 13:14, 15, 17; Gen. 15:13, 16, 18; Gen. 17:8; Gen. 28:13, 15; Gen. 35:12). Some four hundred years later, in fulfillment of the promise (Gen. 15:13, 16), the Lord announced to Moses that He would bring Israel out of Egypt into a land flowing with milk and honey (Exod. 3:8, 17; Exod. 6:8). God repeated the promise to Joshua (Josh. 1:3), and in David’s day it was largely, but not completely, fulfilled (Gen. 15:18–21; 2 Sam. 8:1–14; 1 Kings 4:21, 1 Chron. 19:1–19).

Now read Hebrews 11:9, 10, 13–16. These verses make it clear that Abraham and the other faithful patriarchs viewed Canaan as a symbol, or a foreshadowing, of the ultimate settled home of God’s redeemed people. In the sin situation, no permanent home is possible. Life is fleeting, like “a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes” (James 4:14, RSV). As the spiritual descendants of Abraham, we, too, must realize that “here we do not have an enduring city, but we are looking for the city that is to come” (Heb. 13:14, NIV). The certainty of the future life with Christ keeps us steady in this present world of change and decay.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What effect should God’s promise of a new earth have on our personal Christian experience? (Compare Matt. 5:5; 2 Cor. 4:17, 18; Rev. 21:9, 10; Rev. 22:17.)`

`“True greatness was to result from compliance with God’s commands and cooperation with His divine purpose.”—SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, p. 293. Discuss what this statement means.`

**Summary**: Promises! How precious they are to the believer! Will they be fulfilled? Faith answers, Yes.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_God’s Amazing Grace_, “Christ’s Representative,” p. 196;

_Patriarchs and Prophets_, “The Test of Faith,” pp. 145–155.