---
title:  A Sinless Priest
date:  02/02/2022
---

#### inVite

Hebrews 7:26 describes the several characteristics of Jesus as our High Priest. First, Jesus is “holy.” As God, Jesus is holy by nature (Lev. 11:45; 1 Pet. 1:16).

Jesus was also “undefiled.” He remained pure and untouched by evil, despite being tempted in “all points” (Heb. 2:18). Jesus’ perfect sinlessness is important. The old covenant stipulated that sacrificial victims had to be “without blemish” to be acceptable to God (Lev. 1:3, 10). Jesus’ perfect obedience during His earthly life made it possible for Him to offer Himself as an acceptable sacrifice to God (Heb. 9:14).

Jesus was “separated from sinners” when He ascended to heaven. The Greek verb tense suggests that this is a present state for Jesus, which began at a specific point in time. Jesus endured hostility from sinners during His earthly life, but He was victorious and was then seated at the right hand of God (Heb. 12:2, 3).

Lastly, Jesus was “exalted . . . above the heavens” (Ps. 57:5, 11; 108:5, ESV). It means that Jesus has been exalted above everything there is, and therefore He is one with God. In the Psalms, God is the one who is “exalted above the heavens.”

Jesus was fully human, but He was not a sinful human being as we are (Heb. 2:14–16; 4:15). Jesus is perfect because He never sinned.

Yet, because He was also fully human, He is also our example. He shows us how to run the race of life (Heb. 12:1–4). He is the example that we must follow (1 Pet. 2:21–23). Because He is “holy, harmless, undefiledseparate from sinners” (Heb. 7:26, NKJV), He is our Savior, and we, too, can reflect His character.

` `