---
title:  Telling People About Jesus: The Power of Our Personal Stories
date:   04/07/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Mark 5:15–20; Mark 16:1–11; Acts 4:13; 1 John 1:1–3; Galatians 2:20.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘We cannot be quiet. We must tell people about what we have seen and heard’ ” (Acts 4:20, ERV).

WHAT MAKES OUR PERSONAL STORIES ABOUT JESUS so powerful? First, Jesus warms our hearts with His love. Next, Jesus changes our lives. Then we have something important to say about Him. Sure, we can tell people stories about what Jesus did for someone else. But it is more powerful when we share our own stories about the things Jesus does for us.

It is hard to argue with someone’s personal experience. People may argue with your beliefs. They may not agree with your explanation of Bible truth. People may laugh at religion or scold you for your faith in God. But who can argue with your experience? You can say, “I had no hope. But now I have hope. I was filled with guilt. But now I have peace. My life had no meaning. But now I have a reason to live!” Even people who doubt can be moved by the Good News when they see how Jesus changes your life.

Some people may experience a fast change in their spiritual lives the same as Paul on the Damascus road. But most people change little by little over time. They start to understand who Jesus is. Then they become grateful for Jesus’ wonderful gift of mercy and His wish to save them from sin. Jesus changes our lives fully. He changes us in a way that other people can see. This change is exactly what the people on this earth want and need very much.
