---
title:  THE MAN THAT NO ONE EXPECTS TO BE A WITNESS
date:   05/07/2020
---

`Read Mark 5:15–20. Do you see how Jesus sends the man into Decapolis to witness? Why doesn’t Jesus keep the man near Him to help his new faith grow stronger?`

The word “Decapolis” comes from two Greek words: “deca,” (“ten”) and “polis” (“city”). Decapolis was an area made up of ten cities along the Sea of Galilee in the 1st century. The people there talked in the same language and shared the same way of life. Many people in that land knew about the man filled with thousands of demons. The demon-filled man did strange and awful things that scared the people. No one trusted this man. Jesus saw deep into the demon-filled man’s heart. Jesus saw that the man wanted a better life. So, Jesus healed this man.

Then the townspeople heard what Jesus did. They learned that Jesus let the demons move into their pigs. The pigs jumped off a cliff into the sea and drowned. Mark tells us, “Then [the townspeople] came to Jesus. They saw the man who had been controlled by many demons. He was sitting there. He was now dressed and thinking clearly. All this made the people afraid” (Mark 5:15, NIrV). The man was healthy again. Jesus changed the man’s thoughts, feelings, and spirit. This is what the Good News does. It takes people who are broken by sin and makes them better people.

That is why this man is the best witness to the ten cities. The man’s life is fully changed. Now he can share his experience about Jesus with everyone in Decapolis. Ellen G. White writes, “We are witnesses for Jesus. It is our job to tell people what we know about Him. We must share what we see, hear, and feel about Jesus. If we follow Jesus step by step, we will have something to share with people about the way that Jesus leads us. We can tell people how we trust in God’s promise and know His promise is true. We can share what we know about God’s mercy too. Jesus wants us to tell people about Him. People need to know about Him or they will be lost.”—The Desire of Ages, page 340, adapted. God often uses people that no one expects Him to use. These people change lives because Jesus first changed them.

`What is your story? How did you learn about Jesus? What can you share about your experience to help someone who does not believe in Jesus?`
