---
title:  OUR SAVIOR LIVES
date:   06/07/2020
---

It is early Sunday morning. The two Marys hurry to Jesus’ grave. They do not go there to ask Him for anything. What can a dead man possibly give them? The last time the two Marys saw Jesus, He was covered in blood and bruises. They never will forget what happened to Jesus on the cross. The women come to wash Jesus’ body and get it ready for the grave. Their hearts are very sad. The future does not offer the women much hope.

The women arrive at Jesus’ grave. They are surprised to see that it is empty. Matthew tells us what happens next: “The angel said to the women, ‘Do not be afraid. I know you are looking for Jesus Who was nailed to the cross. He is not here! He has risen from the dead as He said He would’ ” (Matthew 28:5, 6, NLV).

The womens’ hearts fill with joy. They no longer feel sad. Now they are glad. They stop crying. They sing songs of joy at the news that Jesus lives!

`Read about Mary in Mark 16:1–11. What does Mary do when she learns that Jesus wakes up from the dead?`

Mary meets Jesus after He wakes up from the dead. Then she runs to tell the story to Jesus’ followers. Mary cannot stay silent. The news is too wonderful to keep to herself. Jesus is alive! His grave is empty! People everywhere must be told about it. We, too, meet the same Jesus in life that Mary met. When we do, we must run to tell the story to other people. Good news must be shared! We must not keep the Good News about Jesus to ourselves.

It is interesting that Jesus’ followers refuse to believe Mary’s story. Remember, these are the same followers that Jesus Himself chose. Jesus also told them many times about His death and resurrection, or waking up from the dead. “But Mary told them that Jesus was alive. She said that she had seen him, but the followers did not believe her” (Mark 16:11, ICB). There is an important lesson for us here. Jesus’ own followers do not believe the truth right away. So, we also should not be surprised if people do not accept our words about Jesus right away.

`When was the last time someone turned away from you when you tried to tell him or her about Jesus? What did you learn from that experience?`
