---
title: 'The Power Of A Changed Life'
date: 07/07/2020
---

**“The Jewish leaders saw that Peter and John were not afraid to speak. They understood that these men had no special training or education. So they were amazed [surprised]. Then they realized [understood] that Peter and John had been with Jesus” (Acts 4:13, ICB).**

The New Testament church grows big very fast. 3,000 people are baptized on one day (Acts 2:41)! Thousands of people are added to the church a few weeks later (Acts 4:4). Soon the leaders of the Jewish church start to understand why the church grows so fast. It is because the New Testament believers have been with Jesus. Jesus’ grace changes the lives of His followers. Grace, as we saw, is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. These changed men and women cannot stay silent. They must tell everyone the wonderful news about Jesus.

`Read Acts 4:1–20. What happens when the Jewish leaders try to stop Peter and John from telling people about Jesus? What is Peter and John’s answer?`

At one time, Peter was a loud fisherman. God’s grace changed Peter. In the past, John and his brother James had a hard time controlling their tempers. So, Jesus named them the sons of thunder. Then Jesus’ grace changed them too. Thomas was filled with doubt. Jesus’ grace changed Thomas. Each of Jesus’ followers and New Testament church members have their own stories about Jesus. So, they cannot stay silent. Ellen G. White explains why this happens. “As soon as someone comes to Jesus, he wishes to tell other people about Him. Jesus is his precious Friend. Jesus saved him and changed his life. The Christian cannot shut away this truth in his heart.”—Steps to Christ, page 78, adapted.

Do you see what the Jewish religious leaders say in Acts 4:16? The healed man stands in front of them. So, the leaders must accept that a miracle happened. But they refuse to change their hearts. Does that stop Peter and John from talking about Jesus? Not at all!

`What connection is there between knowing Jesus and sharing Jesus? Why must we know who Jesus is before we tell other people about Him?`
