---
title:  SHARING OUR EXPERIENCE
date:   08/07/2020
---

In Acts 26, we see that Paul stands in chains in front of King Agrippa. Paul tells the king his life story. Paul talks about the time when he attacked Jesus’ followers. Then Paul tells the king how Jesus changed his life. Paul also talks about Jesus’ promise to wake up the dead and bring them back to life (Acts 26:8).

Paul is changed on the Damascus road. There, the Lord says to Paul, “ ‘Stand up! I have chosen you to be my servant. You will tell people about me—what you have seen today and what I will show you. This is why I have come to you’ ” (Acts 26:16, ERV). When we share our faith with people, it is always a powerful experience. What does it mean to share our faith? We tell people the story of everything that Jesus did for us in the past. We share everything that Jesus does in our lives today. We talk about what Jesus will do for us in the future.

Our sharing Jesus is never about us. Our sharing is always about Jesus. Jesus forgives our sins. He heals our sicknesses. He fills us with His love. He gives us good things (Psalm 103:3–5). So, witnessing is our sharing the story of Jesus’ wonderful grace. As we know, grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. Witnessing is our personal story about meeting the God of grace.

`Read 1 John 1:1–3. Then compare these verses with Galatians 2:20. What is the same in both sets of verses? How is John’s experience the same as Paul’s?`

True, John and Paul have different life experiences. But they both have a personal experience with Jesus. Their experiences are not something that happens only one time and then never again. No, their experience happens daily. Every day they feel joy in Jesus’ love. Every day, they follow His truth. His truth is the same as a bright light.

Is a changed life something that happens only one time? Ellen G. White talks about people who have an experience with Jesus only in the past. “They think their past experience is enough. So, they do not think they need to be changed daily. But we all must be changed by Jesus every day.”—Manuscript Releases, volume 4, page 46, adapted.

`Why must we know Jesus and His love day by day?`
