---
title:  THE POWER OF OUR PERSONAL STORIES
date:   09/07/2020
---

Let us look again at Paul’s meeting with King Agrippa. Agrippa is the last of the Jewish kings known as the Macabees. Yes, Agrippa says that he is a Jew. But in his heart he is a Roman. (Read The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 436.) Paul fought his whole life in the war against evil. Now he is old and worn out. He is tired from his many trips to share the Good News about Jesus. Even so, Paul stands there bravely in front of the mighty king. Paul’s heart is filled with God’s love and his face shining with God’s peace. Yes, many bad things happened to Paul in life. But he can say that God is good!

King Agrippa’s heart is filled with doubt. His heart is hard too. He does not care about right or wrong. Paul is so different! Paul is filled with faith. He cares about the truth. He is loyal to God. He defends the truth with his whole heart. During his time in court, Paul asks Agrippa for permission to talk. Agrippa gives Paul permission.

`Read Acts 26:1–32. As these verses show, how does Paul talk to Agrippa? What can we learn from Paul’s words?`

When we are kind to people, they open their hearts to us. When we are mean and nasty, people close their hearts to us. Do you see in these verses how much respect Paul shows to Agrippa? Paul says, “ ‘I am very happy to talk to you, because you know so much about all the Jewish customs [ways of life] and the things the Jews argue about. Please listen to me patiently [be patient]’ ” (Acts 26:3, ERV). Then Paul tells the king about how Jesus changed his life.

`Read Paul’s story in Acts 26:12–18. Then look carefully at how Paul’s story causes Agrippa to feel in Acts 26:26–28. How does Paul’s story cause the king to feel? Why do you think Agrippa answers the way he does? What does Paul say that touches Agrippa’s heart?`

Paul’s personal story about Jesus touches the king’s heart deeply. Why? Because the most powerful proof about Jesus we can show other people is a changed life. Even kings who do not believe in God are moved when they see lives that are changed by God’s mercy. Maybe our stories are not as powerful as Paul’s. But we all can tell people about what it means to know Jesus and be saved by His blood.
