---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   10/07/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Almost Thou Persuadest Me,’ ” pages 433–438, in The Acts of the Apostles.

What is the most important part of the Christian life? It is having Jesus in our hearts. When our experience with Jesus is rich and full, we will share it with other people. Yes, correct teachings are important. But teachings are no substitute for a changed life. Ellen G. White makes this truth plain and clear. “The Savior knows that arguing about the truth will never touch hard hearts. Our words are not enough to cause someone to stop being selfish. Reason and truth alone will not make people turn away from loving the things on this earth. Jesus knows that His followers must accept Heaven’s gift. Heaven’s gift is the Good News. The Good News must be shared by people whose hearts are first made warm from knowing Jesus. Then the Good News will have power. That is because a living knowledge of Jesus will give our words power. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life.”—The Acts of the Apostles, page 31, adapted.

In The Desire of Ages, Ellen G. White adds this powerful thought: “Yes, we must tell people about Bible truth. But the love of Jesus has the power to do what Bible truth alone cannot do. Jesus’ wonderful love will melt and win hearts.”—Page 826, adapted.

Some Christians have the wrong idea about what a personal testimony, or story, is. They think it means trying to make people believe Bible truth. Yes, it is important at the right time to share Bible truth. But our personal story about Jesus is about more than changing people’s minds. It is about changing hearts. Jesus frees us from guilt. He gives us peace, mercy, and forgiveness. He makes us strong. He fills us with hope and joy. He freely offers us His gift of everlasting life. This is what our personal testimony is all about.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Why do you think our personal testimonies, or stories, are so powerful? How have people’s testimonies changed you?`

`2. Why is a daily experience with Jesus important to our faith?`

`3. Why is it important for us to live a holy life? How does that make our story about Jesus more powerful?`

`4. Share your personal story about Jesus with the class. Remember to share what Jesus did for you in the past and what He does for you today. How has Jesus changed your life?`
