---
title:  A Deeper Look into Chapter 5
date:  28/10/2019
---

#### inTerpret

What are the parallels between ancient Babylon in Daniel and end-time Babylon in Revelation?

`They both cause their subjects to be drunk (Dan. 5:1; Rev. 17:2).`

`They both have wine in golden cups (Dan. 5:3; Rev. 17:4).`

`They both mix the sacred with the pagan (Dan. 5:1–4; Rev. 18:1–3).`

`They both are defeated by kings from the east (Isa. 45:1–5; Rev. 16:12).`

`They both are built over the river Euphrates (Isa. 44:27, 28; Rev. 16:12; 17:6, 15).`

`They both fall when the river Euphrates dries up (Isa. 45:1–5; Rev. 16:12, 19)`

The fall of ancient Babylon in Daniel reveals characteristics of how symbolic Babylon in the book of Revelation will fall. The fall of ancient Babylon came about because of the rejection of light and truth in the same way the fall of end-time Babylon will come because of the rejection of light and truth.

Does God hold everyone to the same level of accountability?

“God’s test of the heathen, who have not the light, and of those living where the knowledge of truth and light has been abundant, is altogether different. He accepts from those in heathen lands a phase of righteousness which does not satisfy Him when offered by those of Christian lands. He does not require much where much has not been bestowed” (Ellen G. White Comments, The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 5:1121).

James 4:17 states, “Therefore, to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.” The principle that emerges is that accountability is directly proportional to the amount of light that we have been given. Less light means less accountability. More light means more accountability.

``