---
title:  “He Is the Radiance of the Glory of God”
date:  11/01/2022
---

`Read Hebrews 1:2–4. What are some of the things that this passage teaches us about Jesus?`

In this section, we will focus on the portion that says, “He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature” (Heb. 1:3, ESV).

`Read Exodus 24:16, 17; Psalm 4:6; Psalm 36:9; and Psalm 89:15. How do these texts help us understand what the glory of God is?`

In the Old Testament, the glory of God refers to His visible presence among His people (Exod. 16:7; Exod. 24:16, 17; Lev. 9:23; Num. 14:10). This presence is often associated with light or radiance.

Scripture informs us that Jesus is the Light who came to this world to reveal the glory of God (Heb. 1:3; John 1:6–9, 14–18; 2 Cor. 4:6). Think, for instance, of how Jesus appeared in the Transfiguration. “And He was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and His clothes became as white as the light” (Matt. 17:2, NKJV).

Just as the sun cannot be perceived except by the radiance of its light, God is known through Jesus. From our perspective, the two are one. Because God’s glory is light itself, there is no difference, in actual being and character, between God and Jesus, just as there is no difference between light and its radiance.

Hebrews also says that Jesus is the “exact representation” of the Father’s substance (Heb. 1:3, NASB). The point of the metaphor is that there is a perfect correspondence in being—or essence—between the Father and the Son. Note that human beings carry God’s image but not His essence (Gen. 1:26). The Son, however, shares the same essence with the Father. No wonder that Jesus said, “ ‘He who has seen Me has seen the Father’ ” (John 14:9, NKJV).

`Why is it such great news that Jesus reveals the character and the glory of the Father to us? What does Jesus tell us about what the Father is like?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord Jesus Christ, the divine Son of God, existed from eternity, a distinct person, yet one with the Father. He was the surpassing glory of heaven. He was the commander of the heavenly intelligences, and the adoring homage of the angels was received by Him as His right. This was no robbery of God. “The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way,” He declares, “before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth: while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth” (Proverbs 8:22-27).<br/>
There are light and glory in the truth that Christ was one with the Father before the foundation of the world was laid. This is the light shining in a dark place, making it resplendent with divine, original glory. This truth, infinitely mysterious in itself, explains other mysterious and otherwise unexplainable truths, while it is enshrined in light, unapproachable and incomprehensible.—_Selected Messages_, book 1, pp. 247, 248.

The blessings of redeeming love our Saviour compared to a precious pearl. He illustrated His lesson by the parable of the merchantman seeking goodly pearls “who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it.” Christ Himself is the pearl of great price. In Him is gathered all the glory of the Father, the fullness of the Godhead. He is the brightness of the Father’s glory and the express image of His person. The glory of the attributes of God is expressed in His character. Every page of the Holy Scriptures shines with His light. The righteousness of Christ, as a pure, white pearl, has no defect, no stain. No work of man can improve the great and precious gift of God. It is without a flaw. In Christ are “hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.” Colossians 2:3. He is “made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption.” 1 Corinthians 1:30. All that can satisfy the needs and longings of the human soul, for this world and for the world to come, is found in Christ. Our Redeemer is the pearl so precious that in comparison all things else may be accounted loss.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 115.