---
title:  “Today I Have Begotten You”
date:  13/01/2022
---

Hebrews 1:5 reports the following words of the Father to Jesus: “ ‘You are My Son, Today I have begotten You’ ” (NKJV). What does it mean that Jesus was “begotten,” and when did this happen? Does not this show that Jesus was somehow created by God sometime way in the past, as many believe?

`Read Hebrews 1:5; 2 Samuel 7:12–14; Psalm 2:7; and Luke 1:31, 32. What promise to David did Paul in Hebrews apply to Jesus?`

Jesus was begotten in the sense that He was installed, or “adopted,” by God as the promised Ruler, the Son of David. The concept of the divine adoption of the ruler was common in the Greco-Roman world and the East. It gave the ruler legitimacy and power over the land.

God promised to David, however, that his Son would be the true, legitimate ruler of the nations. He would “adopt” David’s Son as His own Son. Through this process the Davidic King would become God’s Protégé and His Heir. The covenant is fulfilled in Jesus as the Son of David. God would defeat His enemies and give Him the nations as His inheritance (Ps. 89:27; Ps. 2:7, 8).

As we can read in Romans 1:3, 4 and Acts 13:32, 33, Jesus was publicly revealed as God’s Son. Jesus’ baptism and transfiguration were moments when God identified and announced Jesus as His Son (Matt. 3:17, Matt. 17:5).

Yet, according to the New Testament, Jesus became the “Son of God with power” when He was resurrected and seated at the right hand of God. It was at that moment that God fulfilled His promise to David that his Son would be adopted as God’s own Son and His throne over the nations would be established forever (2 Sam. 7:12–14).

Thus, Caesar (symbol of Rome) was not the legitimate “son of god,” ruler of the nations. Instead, Jesus Christ was. The “begetting” of Jesus refers to the beginning of Jesus’ rule over the nations, and not to the beginning of His existence, because Jesus had always existed. There was never a time when Jesus did not exist, because He is God.

In fact, Hebrews 7:3 says that Jesus has “neither beginning of days nor end of life” (compare Heb. 13:8) because He is eternal. Thus, the idea of Jesus as God’s “only begotten son” is not dealing with the nature of Christ as deity but with His role in the plan of salvation. Through the incarnation, Christ fulfilled all the covenant promises.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When Christ bowed on the banks of Jordan, after His baptism, the heavens, were opened, and the Spirit descended in the form of a dove, like burnished gold, and encircled Him with its glory; and the voice of God from the highest heaven was heard, saying, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” (Matthew 3:17). The prayer of Christ in man’s behalf opened the gates of heaven, and the Father had responded, accepting the petition for the fallen race. Jesus prayed as our substitute and surety, and now the human family may find access to the Father through the merits of His well-beloved Son. . . .<br/>
The word that was spoken to Jesus at the Jordan . . . embraces humanity. God spoke to Jesus as our representative. With all our sins and weaknesses, we are not cast aside as worthless. . . . The glory that rested upon Christ is a pledge of the love of God for us. It tells us of the power of prayer—how the human voice may reach the ear of God, and our petition find acceptance in the courts of heaven. . . . The light which fell from the open portals upon the head of our Saviour will fall upon us as we pray for help to resist temptation. The voice which spoke to Jesus says to every believing soul, This is My beloved child, in whom I am well pleased. . . . Our Redeemer has opened the way so that the most sinful, the most needy, . . . may find access to the Father.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 83.

God has adopted human nature in the person of His Son, and has carried the same into the highest heaven. It is the “Son of man” who shares the throne of the universe. It is the “Son of man” whose name shall be called, “Wonderful, Counselor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.” Isaiah 9:6. The I AM is the Daysman between God and humanity, laying His hand upon both. He who is “holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners,” is not ashamed to call us brethren. Hebrews 7:26; 2:11. In Christ the family of earth and the family of heaven are bound together. Christ glorified is our brother. Heaven is enshrined in humanity, and humanity is enfolded in the bosom of Infinite Love.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 25, 26.

The Son of God died for those who had no claim on His love. For us He suffered all that Satan could bring against Him.<br/>
Wonderful—almost too wonderful for man to comprehend—is the Saviour’s sacrifice in our behalf. . . . When we realize that His suffering was necessary in order to secure our eternal well-being, our hearts are touched and melted. He pledged Himself to accomplish our full salvation in a way satisfactory to the demands of God’s justice, and consistent with the exalted holiness of His law.<br/>
No one less holy than the Only Begotten of the Father, could have offered a sacrifice that would be efficacious to cleanse all—even the most sinful and degraded—who accept the Saviour as their atonement and become obedient to Heaven’s law. Nothing less could have reinstated man in God’s favor.—_Selected Messages_, book 1, p. 309.