---
title:  Job’s Redeemer
date:   10/12/2016
---

### Job’s Redeemer

### Read for This Week’s Study
Job 19:25–27; John 1:1–14; Job 10:4, 5; Luke 2:11; Gal. 4:19; Luke 9:22; Isa. 53:1–6.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Surely He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed Him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted” (Isaiah 53:4, NKJV). 

With the sudden appearance of the Lord Himself, beginning in chapter 38, the book of Job reached its climax. God revealed Himself to Job in a powerful and miraculous way, and this resulted in Job’s confession and contrition. The Lord then rebuked Job’s three friends for their wrong words, and Job prayed for them. “And the Lord restored Job’s losses when he prayed for his friends. Indeed the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before” (Job 42:10, NKJV), and Job lived a long and full life afterward.

There is, however, something unsettling, something unsatisfactory about the story and how it ends. God and Satan, arguing in heaven, battle it out here on earth in the life and flesh of poor Job? It just doesn’t seem fair, doesn’t seem right, that Job would have to bear the terrible brunt of this conflict between God and Satan, while the Lord remained in heaven and simply watched it. 

There must be more to the story. And there is. It is revealed many centuries later, in Jesus and His death on the cross. In Jesus alone we find amazing and comforting answers to the questions that the book of Job doesn’t fully answer.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, December 17._