---
title:  My Redeemer Liveth
date:   11/12/2016
---

### My Redeemer Liveth 

When God appeared to Job in chapter 38, He revealed Himself to Job as the Creator, who “ ‘divided a channel for the overflowing water,’ ” the One who made “ ‘a path for the thunderbolt, to cause it to rain on a land where there is no one’ ” (Job 38:25, 26, NKJV). Our Lord, though, isn’t only the Creator. He has another crucial title and role, as well.

`Read Job 19:25–27. What do these words reveal about Job’s hope of salvation?` 

With these famous verses, Job shows that he had some knowledge of the Redeemer, some knowledge that, though people died, there was hope beyond the grave, and this hope was found in the Redeemer, who was to come to the earth one day. 

These words of Job point to what is the most crucial and important truth in the Bible: God as our Redeemer. Yes, God is our Creator. But in a fallen world, in a world of sinners doomed to die eternally in their sins, we need more than a Creator. We need a Redeemer, as well. And that’s precisely who our God is: both our Creator and our Redeemer (see Isa. 48:13–17), and it’s from Him in both those roles that we have the great hope of eternal life.

`Read John 1:1–14. In this passage, how does John tie together Jesus as Creator with Jesus as our Redeemer?` 

The allusion to Genesis 1:1, God as Creator, is obvious in John 1:1. And if that weren’t enough, these words—“He was in the world, and the world was made through Him. . . . But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in His name” (John 1:10–12, NKJV)—make the link between Jesus as Creator and Redeemer inseparable. Indeed, it’s only because He is the Creator that He can be our Redeemer, as well.

`If we had only a Creator but no Redeemer, what hope would we have? What does your answer say about why Jesus as Redeemer is so important to us?`