---
title:  The End Is Coming
date:  24/03/2019
---

**Logos**: Dan. 12:6, 7; Ps. 79:5; Hab. 1:2; Rev. 21:5

The Wedding Supper of the Lamb (Rev. 19:6–9; John 14:1–3) The coming of Jesus is described as the wedding of the Lamb, in which Christ is the Groom and the saints are His bride. As the groom, Christ has promised to His people that He will come again to bring them to His Father’s house (John 14:1–3). They will then be together forever. The readiness of the bride is indicated by her wearing the white wedding gown, which is the characteristic of the saints (Rev. 19:8). We do not deserve to be the spiritual bride of Jesus—after all, we are sinners and He is not. Jesus has made this marriage possible only through His righteous blood.

**Armageddon Ends (Rev. 19:11–16)**

Armageddon refers to the final battle in the great controversy conflict between Christ and Satan. It involves Jesus and His people and is juxtaposed by Satan and his followers. The battle began in heaven (Rev. 12:7–9) and continues into the present. Ultimately it will not be finished until sin and Satan are destroyed and Jesus makes the earth new again after the millennium. Revelation 19:11–16 describes Jesus as the hero of the battle. He is called KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS. He is our Savior, our groom, our Lord and King. The victory is sure. Would you not like to be on His side?

**The Millennium (Rev. 20:1–15; Jer. 4:23–26)**

Jesus, the groom, is now with the saints, who are His bride. They will spend a period of one thousand years together in heaven. This period is called the millennium because it represents one thousand literal years. According to Revelation 20:1–15, the following events will take place before, during, and after the millennium:

Before the millennium:

• Jesus comes again
• The righteous dead are resurrected
• The living righteous are taken to heaven together with the resurrected ones
• The living wicked perish
• The dead wicked remain in the grave

During the millennium:

• Satan is “chained” (he is alone with no people to tempt)
• The wicked remain dead
• The righteous reign with Jesus in heaven

After the millennium:

• Satan is released
• The wicked are resurrected
• Jesus and the righteous come down to earth
• Satan and the wicked attack God’s city that comes down from heaven
• Satan and the wicked are destroyed
• Heaven and earth are renewed

**A New Heaven and a New Earth (Genesis 2; Rev. 7:15–17; 21:2–8)**

After the millennium, God creates a new heaven and a new earth. Eden as described in Genesis 2 is finally restored. Revelation 21 describes not only the place but also where the place is located. All things that are caused and affected by sin disappear: “ ‘And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away’ ” (verse 4, NKJV). Sin will never return. There will be no more people hiding behind a tree for fear because they have sinned. This is the place where only the righteous will abide. God will be among His people, not only for one thousand years but forever.

**The New Jerusalem (Rev. 21:9–22:5)**

Revelation 21:9–22:5 describes what the New Jerusalem is like. It comes down from heaven. There will be no more night because the glory of God is so bright. The New Jerusalem is the place for those people whose names are written in the book of life. It is not a place for those who are deceitful and cause shame. Can you imagine what this new earth will be like? What an amazing promise to know that through the gift of salvation we can live with the Lord forever!

**React**

`1. How do we prepare ourselves to make sure that we are on Christ’s side?`

`2. Have you ever been afraid of Armageddon? How can we learn to trust Jesus to know that we will be safe?`

---

_Richla Sabuin, Hong Kong_