---
title:  Restored to Former Glory
date:  25/03/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 21:4

In the closing chapters of The Great Controversy, Ellen G. White depicts the events of the last days when the New Jerusalem will descend to earth. Just as in the Old Testament after God’s people have endured suffering, they cry out to God saying, “How long, O Lord!” It is comforting to know that a perfect ending awaits the faithful who have endured it all. This New Jerusalem is prepared for the faithful, who are described in intricate detail. God’s Word reassures us that the pain and suffering of this world will not continue into the New Jerusalem that is prepared for those who remain faithful (Rev. 21:4).

“With unutterable love, Jesus welcomes His faithful ones to the joy of their Lord. The Saviour’s joy is in seeing, in the kingdom of glory, the souls that have been saved by His agony and humiliation. And the redeemed will be sharers in His joy, as they behold, among the blessed, those who have been won to Christ through their prayers, their labors, and their loving sacrifice.”1

When Christ returns to take His remnant people home with Him, they are restored by God to their original state that God intended for them to be in. Sin not only corrupted their mind but also marred the original form each human being was created to have. God, however, has promised to us that He will restore things to their former glory. These repeated assurances about the world to come will be far better than the present one and should remind us of the importance of prioritizing future blessings above temporary pleasures.

“The living righteous are changed ‘in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye.’ At the voice of God they were glorified; now they are made immortal and with the risen saints are caught up to meet their Lord in the air. Angels ‘gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.’ Little children are borne by holy angels to their mother’s arms. Friends long separated by death are united, nevermore to part, and with songs of gladness ascend to the City of God.”2 The human race, once lost to sin, is at last restored to its original glory.

**React**

`In what ways has sin corrupted human beings from God’s original plan? Is it possible to achieve restoration without God’s help?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 647.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 645.</sup>

_Jude Joshua Marandi, Ranchi, India_