---
title:  Folks, It Is Time to Push the “Reset” Button!
date:  26/03/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 21:2–6

Much of the intrigue and excitement in the book of Revelation stems from the destruction of the world at the end along with the hope of a new start. As suffering, oppression, pain, and death reach their demonic brink, God steps in and pushes the “Reset” button.

“How long, O Lord, till the end of these things?” is the cry of the suffering saints who are relentlessly assaulted by Satan and his evil forces. The answer to this question lies in Revelation 21:2–6, where God promises not just to end the suffering but also to create a “new heaven and a new earth” where evil and its consequences do not exist.

The endgame in this world’s history is a tale of two cities, Babylon and New Jerusalem. Which city do you belong to? Babylon the Great, the city described in Revelation 14:8; 17:5; and 18:21 is the world’s collective body of false religions, which God rejects. The purpose of this city is to subtly lead people away from the worship of the true God. On the other hand, the New Jerusalem represents purity, life, joy, and healing, which is indeed the antithesis of Babylon. When you accept Christ’s atoning sacrifice, you become a citizen of the New Jerusalem.

When does the New Jerusalem descend to earth? When evil, chaos, and moral debasement push the world to its tipping point, God will intervene by ushering in the New Jerusalem. This New Jerusalem embodies the end of suffering (Rev. 21:4).

Today we live in the cataclysmic rule of Babylon the Great. Whether it may be cunningly crafted New Age ideologies, alternate sexualities, exaggerated faith in technology, fantasy art, desensitization to extreme violence, or ethics devoid of morality, confusion is reflected in all that surrounds us. Frankly, our sufferings are far from over. As the end draws near, so does the time for tribulation. Babylon will seemingly achieve unprecedented greatness and may even seem invincible. At this time our hope and faith must endure that Jesus is coming again. Eventually, Babylon will fall, and the New Jerusalem will descend. Jesus, our Lord, will then make all things new! God Himself will wipe away every tear, and there will be no more death or sorrow or crying or pain. The endgame leads to a new start!

**React**

`1. To which city do you belong? Babylon the Great or the New Jerusalem?`

`2. Comparing and contrasting the two cities, what do you detest in Babylon, and what do you look forward to in the New Jerusalem?`

---

_Komal Nunfeli Swansi, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_