---
title:  “He Will Wipe Away Every Tear”
date:  27/03/2019
---

**How-to**: Ps. 34:19; 2 Cor. 4:17; Rev. 21:4

Revelation 21:4 shares a profound promise that will bring hope to every sufferer of pain, oppression, or misery. God promises to make all things new. We will be renewed in the likeness of Christ, perfect and flawless. God will then take us to heaven and give us everlasting life.

Suffering and hardships are inevitable episodes in our earthly life. As Christians we are not free from worldly struggles, be it disease, death, or despair. In our everyday life, however, we may find solace in the Lord, His promises for us, and His sure return. Exercising this hope and claiming His promises will certainly bring us comfort. This is how we can experience firsthand God’s promise of no tears, no death, no sorrow, no crying, and no pain.

No tears. Tears are often triggered by strong feelings such as joy and sadness. The tears referred to in Revelation 12:4 are caused by intense sadness because of despair, pain, or death. “Wiping away every tear” is the assurance that Jesus, our Friend, will remove the very cause of our sadness.

No death. In 1 Corinthians 15:55 we read, “ ‘Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?’ ” (NIV). Jesus conquered death at the cross, and in the earth made new, death shall be no more. Therefore, we need not sorrow for someone’s death because it is just a sleep!

No sorrow. Hurtful experiences cause sorrow, such as the passing of a loved one or a painful breakup. The Holy Spirit came to comfort us—that’s why He is called the Comforter. There shall be no mourning when we are comforted by none other than God Himself!

No crying. A cry is a primal sound of anguish, pain, or despair that calls attention to one’s situation. When a baby cries, you soothe the child by immediate attention, an assuring touch, and removing the cause of despair. God does just that by eliminating sin, pain, and death!

No pain. Pain is a highly unpleasant sensation caused by physical or psychological trauma. When God makes all things new, illnesses, injuries, and traumas will be things of the past. Hence, there is no pain!

In the final chapter of earth’s history God will re-create this planet, and the original perfection of Eden will be restored.

**React**

`What is one thing you are really looking forward to in the earth made new?`

---

_Karan Kenneth Swansi, Silang, Cavite, Philippines Rhea Joanna Marandi, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia_