---
title:  Beauty and Beasts
date:  28/03/2019
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 6:12

The first section of Revelation chapter 12 shows a radiant woman (verses 1, 2), the dragon (verse 3), and the woman’s child (verse 2) as the main characters. The setting is heaven. The child is caught up to heaven, and the woman flees into the wilderness (verses 5, 6).

The wonder, or sign, of the pregnant woman clothed with the sun, crowned with stars, and standing on the moon symbolizes God’s pure church, which is faithful to her Love, Jesus (Isa. 54:5, 6; Jer. 3:20; 6:2; Ezek. 16:8–14; Hosea 1–3; Gal. 4:26). The sun as a garment symbolizes Christ’s righteousness that clothes the church (Mal. 4:2). The imagery of clothes appears also in Isaiah 61:10. Since the moon reflects the light of the sun, the moon symbolizes the Mosaic and sanctuary system that pointed forward to Jesus Christ.1 The twelve stars signify the twelve tribes of Israel, bringing a continuity in symbols between the Old Testament and the New Testament.

The woman in labor pain is a description of the suffering of God’s people (John 16:33). The good news is that Jesus Christ gives each believer the full armor of God to protect them against evil (Eph. 6:10, 11, 13). The struggle of God’s people is both from within and from without, but ultimately it is Christ’s righteousness that keeps our hearts and minds pure despite such attacks (2 Cor. 10:3–5).

The second wonder of the red dragon symbolizes the ancient serpent, also known as the devil, or Satan. The color red often symbolizes iniquity but can also represent the shed blood of Satan’s innocent victims (Rev. 16:6; 17:6; 18:24). Ultimately Satan is not able to overcome God’s people, who will be victorious (Eph. 6:12).

Revelation 12 points to the past, present, and future conflict that God’s people will face. It describes who the main antagonist is against God’s people— the devil. Thus Revelation 12 is vital for understanding the ultimate outcome of the cosmic conflict between Christ and Satan.

**React**

`How do you see events unfolding that indicate to you that spiritual forces are at work around you?`

---

<sup>1. Uriah Smith, The Prophecies of Daniel and the Revelation (Nashville, TN: Southern Publishing Association, 1946), p. 549.</sup>

_Ashley Natasha Odhiambo, Philippines_