---
title:  The Promise
date:  29/03/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 21:5

**Conclude**

In Revelation 21:5 God promises to make all things new. Our troubles, sorrows, and burdens will be finally washed away. We will get to live in a place where there is nothing to sadden our hearts (verse 4). The Lord promised to prepare a place for us, and He stands with open arms, ready to welcome us. He desires to wash away your sins and make you pure. All that He asks is that you accept Him into your heart.

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “No More Night” by David Phelps. Think about how all the things of this world will pass away and how God promises to make everything new.

- Listing the times in history when God’s people were oppressed by other powers and how His people persevered in the midst of adversity.

- Describing how God makes things new in our lives every day. Think about how He will change everything for the better when He returns.

- Writing a song or a poem about the assurance given to God’s people that evil, oppression, and suffering will eventually come to an end (cf. Genesis 2; Rev. 7:15–17; 21:2–8).

- Making a skit that shows how the world is now and contrasts it with what it will be like when Jesus comes again.

- Praying for missionaries around the world who are sharing God’s Word and sharing with others about who Jesus Christ is so that they can be ready to meet Jesus too. How can you share God’s love with someone whom you know?

**Connect**

Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 674–678.

Roberto Badenas, “New Jerusalem—The Holy City,” in Symposium on Revelation, bk. 2 (Biblical Research Institute, 1992), pp. 243–271.

Daegeuk Nam, “The New Earth and the Eternal Kingdom,” in Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology (Review and Herald, 2000), pp. 947–968.

Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 7, pp. 888–893.

Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ: Commentary on the Book of Revelation (Andrews University Press, 2002), pp. 573–600.

---

_Miguel Alejandro Patino Ramirez, Montemorelos, Mexico_