---
title:  Fellowship in the Church
date:   04/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:3–8. Then answer the following questions. What does Paul thank God for? What does Paul say to the Christians in Philippi to give them hope? Why are Paul’s words so important for us today?`

Paul is in jail. Hundreds of miles separate Paul from the Christians at Philippi. But Paul continues to care for them deeply. Paul started the church in Philippi. So, Paul’s heart is filled with love for the Christians there. That’s why he tells them, “God knows that I very much want to be with all of you. I love you very much, just like [the same as] Christ Jesus himself loves you” (Philippians 1:8, EASY). Paul thanks God for them. Paul’s thanks­giving prayer helps us to understand Jesus’ work for us in ­heaven. Jesus is our high priest. A high priest is a top religious leader.

In Bible times, the high priest wore a chest covering. On this chest covering were 12 stones. There was one stone for each name of the 12 family groups in Israel. So, when the high priest wore the chest covering, that was the same as wearing their names “on his heart” (Exodus 28:29, CEV). Then he went to God to get help for them. As our high priest, Jesus also carries the names of His people in His heart. Then He goes to the Father to get help for us, too.

In Philippians 1:3, Paul says, “Every time I think of you I thank God for you” (WE). This verse shows us the close fellowship that Paul enjoyed with the Philippian Christians. Paul suffered with Jesus (Philippians 3:10). In the same way, the Philippians suffered with Paul. The Philippians also supported Paul’s work for God (Philippians 4:14, 15). The Philippians “helped [Paul] from the first day you believed until now” (Philippians 1:5, ERV). That’s why Paul thanks God for them. Paul prays “with joy” for them (Philippians 1:4, ERV).

Paul doesn’t feel sad for himself in jail. Paul talks about his time in jail as a time to praise God. While Paul is in jail, he shares the Good News about Jesus. Paul also proves that the Good News is Bible truth. Paul will soon go to court. But Paul cares more about saving the soldiers and visitors to the jail than he cares about getting out of jail. Paul isn’t worried if he will live or die. Paul believes that God will finish the “good work” that He ­started in everyone who trusts in Him (Philippians 1:6, ERV).

As our high priest, Jesus also carries the names of His people in His heart.