---
title:  Paul’s Prayer
date:   05/01/2026
---

`Read Paul’s prayer in Philippians 1:9–11. What does Paul pray about? What big things does he ask God for? What do your answers tell you about prayer?`

Paul’s prayer is 43 words long in the Greek language. But in this small number of words, Paul tells us all of his wishes and needs. Paul prays for love, knowledge, understanding, honesty, a clean and innocent heart, and for help to live a holy life. Paul’s prayer is not about himself. He prays for the whole church and for its success. Let’s look more closely at some of the things Paul prays for:

1. **Love.** Paul doesn’t just pray for the church to love more. He prays for the church to share their love and wise words. Paul wants the church to have God's Spirit. We can get God's Spirit only from fellowship with God. We also learn about God from Bible study (read Ephesians 1:17; Ephesians 4:13; and 1 Timothy 2:4).
2. **Wise words.** When we grow our love and share our wise words with others, we will have the skill to know right from wrong. When we choose what is right, we will have holy hearts and clean minds (Philippians 1:10).
3. **Telling the truth.** In the Greek language, the word for telling the truth means “judged with the sunlight.” This symbol helps us see that our behavior must be holy. “Everything that Christians do should be as clear as the sunlight.”—Ellen G. White, Refl ecting Christ, page 71. What does this quote really mean? We shouldn’t be sneaky or do anything in secret. Our lives and behavior should be open and honest. So, we shouldn’t say one thing in private and then do something else in public. Our private lives must match our public lives.
4. **A clean and innocent heart.** We must not say or do anything that will make it hard for someone else to believe in Jesus.
5. **The power to live a holy life.** We can’t live holy lives without Jesus. Paul talks more about this idea in his letters to the Romans and to the Galatians. Paul also talks about this idea in Philippians 3.

`How can our love “grow more and more” until Jesus comes (Philippians 1:9, ERV)? Why is this Bible truth impor­tant for the Christian life (read 1 Corinthians 13:1–8)?`