---
title:  Spiritual Love And Wise Words
date:   06/01/2026
---

The Philippians were upset when they heard that Paul was in jail. We can understand why this news upset them. Now Paul could not work the same as he used to. He could not travel or preach anymore. He stopped visiting the Jewish churches to teach the people that Jesus was the Savior. Paul no longer started churches. The Philippians sent Epaphroditus to check on Paul and to encourage him.

`How did Paul feel about being in jail? What lessons can we learn from his thoughts and feelings about his experience? Read Philippians 1:12–18 for the answers.`

The message Paul sent back to the Philippians must have surprised them. Paul’s spiritual understanding helped him to see his time in jail as a gift from God. Prison didn’t stop Paul’s work at all. That’s why Paul says, “The trouble that has happened to me has helped more people to know about God’s good news” (Philippians 1:12, EASY). Paul saw his Roman guards as possible members for God’s kingdom. Paul understood that his time in jail helped other people to work harder for the Lord.

Sad to say, some church leaders thought they could become more popular and powerful now that Paul was in jail. With Paul out of the way, these leaders thought that the people would pay more attention to their own preaching. Their selfish example is so sad. Worse, these people belonged to the church! Long before Paul, Jeremiah warned us, “ ‘The heart is fooled [tricked] more than anything else, and is very sinful [filled with evil]. Who can know how bad it [the heart] is?’ ” (Jeremiah 17:9, NLV).

Not everyone was so evil. Some Christians worked harder for the Lord. These workers loved Paul so much that his suffering for his faith caused them to trust Jesus more. Because of Paul, these workers went where they were afraid to go before. In the past, they were afraid to speak or preach. But now they no longer felt afraid. Because of these brave workers, more people accepted Jesus and the Good News.

`What are some bad experiences in your past that made your faith strong? How else did these experiences ­help you grow? How did they help you trust God more?`