---
title:  God’s Work in the Heart
date:   07/01/2026
---

Paul’s relationship with the Colossians was different from his relationship with the Philippian Christians. Paul included the Colossians in the group of people who haven’t “met me in person” (Colossians 2:1, NIrV). Paul tells the Colossians that he thanks God for them, the same as the Philippians. Paul is always praying for the Colossians.

`What three things does Paul thank God for? Read Colossians 1:3–8 for the answer.`

Paul talks about three holy behaviors: faith, hope, and love. Paul talks about these three things in his other letters, too (read 1 Corinthians 13:13; 1 Thessalonians 1:3; and 1 Thessalonians 5:8). Do you see that Paul doesn’t praise the Colossians for these three things? Paul thanks His Father in heaven for them. These three gifts come from Him. James says, “Whatever is good and perfect comes to us from God” (James 1:17, NLV). When we see God’s love for us, we will have faith in Jesus (Ephesians 2:4–8). When we believe in Jesus, God fills our hearts with the hope of heaven. Peter says this hope is one of “the blessings God has for his children. These blessings are kept for you in heaven. They cannot be destroyed or be spoiled or lose their beauty” (1 Peter 1:4, ICB).

Paul also says that we can trust the Good News. That’s because the Good News comes from the Bible. The Bible is God’s Word to us (read 2 Corinthians 6:7 and 2 Timothy 2:15). The Bible works in the lives of people who believe in it (1 Thessalonians 2:13). The Lord tells us, “ ‘My word does what I want it to do. What I promise to do will certainly happen’ ” (Isaiah 55:11, EASY). When Jesus’ followers preach the Good News, the Holy Spirit touches their hearts. Then people’s lives change for the better. That’s because the Good News is “the true message that can give them life with God” (Philippians 2:16, EASY).

The Good News went to many places in a very short time. About 30 years after Jesus’ death, Paul said that the Good News was “told to everyone on earth” (Colossians 1:23, ERV). The Roman roads made travel and com­munication easy and fast. But the real reason for the success of the Good News is the power of God’s love. God’s love works with the Good News to give us new spiritual life (James 1:18; 1 Peter 1:23; 2 Corinthians 5:17).