---
title:  Prayer Power
date:   08/01/2026
---

`Read Paul’s prayer in Colossians 1:9–12. What does Paul ask God to do for the Colossians?`

Paul prays that “God will make you completely sure of what he wants” (Colossians 1:9, ERV). Paul asks God to give the Colossian church the “wisdom and spiritual understanding” to know God’s plan. Wisdom comes from fully trusting God. We also must be willing to do what God wants (John 7:17). We must not depend on what we know (Proverbs 3:5). People often ask, “What is God’s plan for me?” We may learn God’s plan for our lives from four important things:

1. **The Bible.** The Bible is the most important gift of wisdom that God gave us. So, we must start with the Bible to learn God’s plan for our lives.
2. **The Writings of Ellen G. White.** God also gave the Seventh-day Adventist Church the writings of Ellen G. White. Her writings are filled with wisdom for God’s people in the end times. As King Jehoshaphat tells Israel, “ ‘Trust in the Lord your God. Then you will be safe. Believe the message that his prophets [special messengers] have spoken. Then you will win the battle’ ” (2 Chronicles 20:20, EASY).
3. **God-given experiences.** We can ask God to make things happen or to stop them from happening (Colossians 4:3).
4. **The Holy Spirit.** When we know the Holy Spirit’s voice, He will lead us. “If you wander from the right path, either to the right or to the left, you will hear a voice behind you saying, ‘You should go this way. Here is the right way’ ” (Isaiah 30:21, ERV).

Paul prays that the lives of the Colossians “will please the Lord” (Colossians 1:10, NLV). Of course, no one can please God without His help. But God gives us mercy. He commands us to live worthy of Him (Ephesians 4:1; 1 Thessalonians 2:12). As Paul says, we must continue to live in Jesus (Colossians 2:6; Colossians 3:7; Colossians 4:5). To do that, we must follow God’s law (Exodus 18:20). We can succeed only with the Spirit’s help (Ezekiel 36:27).

Paul prays that the lives of the Colossians (and also our lives) will please God in every way. Then Paul tells us how to do that: (1) “Do every kind [type] of good work, and (2) you will know more about God” (Colossians 1:10, NLV, read also Colossians 1:9). Finally, (3) we should “joyfully give thanks to the Father” (Colossians 1:12, ICB).