---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   09/01/2026
---

“Many people have trouble planning for the future. Their lives are not certain. They can’t tell how things will end. So, their hearts are often filled with fear. They don’t have peace. Let’s remember this Bible truth: this earth is not our home. We don’t have wisdom to plan our own lives. That’s not our job. ‘God called [commanded] Abraham to travel to another place that he promised to give him. Abraham did not know where that other place was. But he obeyed God and started traveling because he had faith.’ Hebrews 11:8 [ERV].

“Jesus made no plans for Himself when He lived on this earth. He accepted God’s plans for Him. Each day, the Father showed Jesus His plans. We must depend on God in the same way. Then our lives will follow His plan. He will tell us what to do and where to go.

“Too many people try to plan for their future. But their plans fail. Let God plan for you. Be the same as a little child in your heart. Trust God to guide you. ‘He protects his holy people. He keeps them from stumbling [tripping and going in the wrong direction].’ 1 Samuel 2:9 [ERV]. God always leads His children in a way that they would choose to be led if they could see the future. Then they would understand God’s beautiful plan. They would know that they are working together with God.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pages 478, 479, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Make a list of things you thank God for. Do you have many more reasons to thank God than you think?`

`Think about the ending of the quote above. How can you learn to trust God in this deep way?`

`Read Colossians 1:6, 23. Then talk about this quote: “For 40 years, ancient Israel couldn’t enter the Promised Land. Their sins kept them out. The Israelites fought against God. They doubted Him and complained. The same sins have kept modern Israel out of heaven for so many years. The problem isn’t God’s fault. If God’s church did her work, everyone on this earth would have been warned before this time. Then Jesus would have come back to our earth in power and glory.”—Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, page 38, adapted. In what ways are we guilty of the same sins today?`