---
title:  Dysfunction at Home
date:  01/08/2021
---

Joseph knew about dysfunctional families. It had started with his great-grandparents, Abraham and Sarah. When Sarah realized that she was barren, she had convinced Abraham to go in to her servant Hagar. As soon as Hagar was pregnant, the rivalry began. Growing up in this atmosphere, Ishmael and Isaac took the tension into their own families. Isaac made a point of favoring Esau, and Jacob spent his life trying to earn his father’s love and respect. Later on, Jacob was tricked into marrying two sisters who did not get along and competed with each other through a childbearing race, even enlisting their maids to bear Jacob’s children.

`Review the incident detailed in Genesis 34. What kind of emotional and relational impact would this incident have had on the family as a whole and on young Joseph as well?`

The rivalry between the mothers obviously spilled over to the children, who grew up ready to pick a fight. As young adults, Joseph’s older brothers already had massacred all the males in the town of Shechem. The oldest brother, Reuben, displayed dominance and defiance to his aging father by sleeping with Bilhah, Rachel’s maid and the mother of several of Jacob’s children (Gen. 35:22). Meanwhile, Joseph’s brother Judah mistook his widowed daughter-in-law for a prostitute and ended up having twins with her (Genesis 38).

Jacob added fuel to the fire of all this family tension by his obvious favoritism toward Joseph in giving him an expensive colorful coat (Gen. 37:3). If ever there was a dysfunctional family, the patriarch’s family could have competed with it.

`Why do you think that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are all listed as faith heroes in Hebrews 11:17–22 when you consider their messy family relationships?`

God’s faith champions often fall short of their own and God’s expectations. These men are listed in Hebrews 11 not because of their messy famil­y relationships but in spite of them. They learned—often the hard way—about faith, love, and trust in God as they wrestled with these famil­y issues.

`What family dysfunction have you inherited? How can surrendering yourself to the Lord and His ways help break that pattern, at least for the future?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The sin of Jacob, and the train of events to which it led, had not failed to exert an influence for evil—an influence that revealed its bitter fruit in the character and life of his sons. As these sons arrived at manhood they developed serious faults. The results of polygamy were manifest in the household. This terrible evil tends to dry up the very springs of love, and its influence weakens the most sacred ties. The jealousy of the several mothers had embittered the family relation, the children had grown up contentious and impatient of control, and the father’s life was darkened with anxiety and grief.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, p. 208.

Joseph listened to his father’s instructions, and feared the Lord. He was more obedient to his father’s righteous teachings than any of his brethren. He treasured his instructions, and with integrity of heart, loved to obey God. He was grieved at the wrong conduct of some of his brethren, and meekly entreated them to pursue a righteous course, and leave off their wicked acts. This only embittered them against him. His hatred of sin was such that he could not endure to see his brethren sinning against God. He laid the matter before his father, hoping that his authority might reform them. This exposure of their wrongs enraged his brethren against him. They had observed their father’s strong love for Joseph, and were envious at him. Their envy grew into hatred, and finally to murder.—_Spiritual Gifts_, vol. 3, p. 138.

His mother being dead, [Joseph’s] affections clung the more closely to the father, and Jacob’s heart was bound up in this child of his old age. He “loved Joseph more than all his children.”

But even this affection was to become a cause of trouble and sorrow. Jacob unwisely manifested his preference for Joseph, and this excited the jealousy of his other sons. The father’s injudicious gift to Joseph of a costly coat, or tunic, … excited a suspicion that he intended to pass by his elder children, to bestow the birthright upon the son of Rachel. Their malice was still further increased as the boy one day told them of a dream that he had had.

As the lad stood before his brothers, his beautiful countenance lighted up with the Spirit of Inspiration, they could not withhold their admiration; but they did not choose to renounce their evil ways, and they hated the purity that reproved their sins. The same spirit that actuated Cain was kindling in their hearts.—_Conflict and Courage_, p. 72.

The home that is beautified by love, sympathy, and tenderness is a place that angels love to visit, and where God is glorified. The influence of a carefully guarded Christian home in the years of child-hood and youth is the surest safeguard against the corruptions of the world. In the atmosphere of such a home the children will learn to love both their earthly parents and their heavenly Father.

Every Christian family should illustrate to the world the power and excellence of Christian influence. Parents should realize their accountability to keep their homes free from every taint of moral evil.—_The Adventist Home_, p. 19.