---
title:  Doing Relationships God’s Way
date:  04/08/2021
---

Initially Joseph’s story in Egypt takes a positive turn. Joseph has entrusted himself to God, and God blesses Joseph, who rises to heights he would not have imagined in Potiphar’s household.

`In what practical ways could God’s blessings be seen in Joseph’s life? What are Joseph’s interpersonal relationships like? Read Genesis 39:1–6.`

Although Joseph seems to be getting along very well with Potiphar, and his relationships with the staff in the house and the field seem to be smooth—trouble is brewing. Someone at home is restless.

`What relationship problem is Joseph facing? How does he choose to manage it? Read Genesis 39:7–10.`

Joseph has a problem with Potiphar’s wife. Perhaps we should reformulate that: Potiphar’s wife has a problem. She looks at others as “things” that can be manipulated and used. She wants to “use” Joseph. Joseph is described as “handsome in form and appearance” (Gen. 39:6, NKJV). The Bible seldom mentions people’s physical traits, because God “ ‘does not see as man sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart’ ” (1 Sam. 16:7, NKJV). In this case, Joseph’s good looks seem to be more of a hindrance than a help in his pursuit of purity and faithfulness to God’s principles.

Despite this wicked woman’s insistence, Joseph did something seemingly counterproductive. He applied biblical principles to all relationships—­­in this case Potiphar’s wife. Biblical principles for relationships are not old-fashioned, as anyone (which is everyone) who has suffered the consequences of sin can attest.

The biblical narrative points out that this was not a one-off temptation. Potiphar’s wife pursued him again and again (Gen. 39:10). Joseph tried explaining his motivation for his decision (Gen. 39:8, 9), but this did not seem to work.

Joseph realized that he could not control the choices of others. He decided, however, to live, love, and treat those around him in a way that would honor God. Joseph had learned to live in God’s presence. This knowledge helped him resist temptation.

`Have you tried to apply biblical principles to all your relationships, even those where the other person is not “playing fair”? How did it work out? Read Matthew 5:43–48. Why is it important to live like this?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

How fierce was the assault upon Joseph’s morals. It came from one of influence, the most likely to lead astray. Yet how promptly and firmly was it resisted. He suffered for his virtue and integrity, for she who would lead him astray revenged herself upon the virtue she could not subvert, and by her influence caused him to be cast into prison, by charging him with a foul wrong. Here Joseph suffered because he would not yield his integrity. He had placed his reputation and interest in the hands of God. And although he was suffered to be afflicted for a time, to prepare him to fill an important position, yet God safely guarded that reputation that was blackened by a wicked accuser, and afterward, in His own good time, caused it to shine. God made even the prison the way to his elevation. Virtue will in time bring its own reward. The shield which covered Joseph’s heart was the fear of God, which caused him to be faithful and just to his master and true to God.—_The Story of Redemption_, p. 102.

Just to the degree in which the word of God is received and obeyed will it impress with its potency and touch with its life every spring of action, every phase of character. It will purify every thought, regulate every desire. Those who make God’s word their trust will quit themselves like men and be strong. They will rise above all baser things into an atmosphere free from defilement.

When man is in fellowship with God, that unswerving purpose which preserved Joseph and Daniel amidst the corruption of heathen courts will make his a life of unsullied purity. His robes of character will be spotless. In his life the light of Christ will be undimmed. The bright and morning Star will appear shining steadfastly above him in changeless glory.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 136.

The Saviour’s lesson, “Resist not him that is evil,” was a hard saying for the revengeful Jews, and they murmured against it among themselves. But Jesus now made a still stronger declaration:

“Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you; that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven.” …

The children of God are those who are partakers of His nature. It is not earthly rank, nor birth, nor nationality, nor religious privilege, which proves that we are members of the family of God; it is love, a love that embraces all humanity. Even sinners whose hearts are not utterly closed to God’s Spirit, will respond to kindness; while they may give hate for hate, they will also give love for love. But it is only the Spirit of God that gives love for hatred. To be kind to the unthankful and to the evil, to do good hoping for nothing again, is the insignia of the royalty of heaven, the sure token by which the children of the Highest reveal their high estate.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, pp. 73, 75.