---
title:  Teacher Comments
date:  06/08/2021
---

#### Part I: Overview

For many people, the title of this week’s lesson may seem a little strange. How can you find rest in family ties if your family is dysfunctional? What if you have an authoritative, overbearing father? Perhaps you have little or no relationship with your mother? Or what if there are intense sibling rivalries? Of course, there are many families with close bonds of affection. The home is a supportive place where love is openly expressed. But this is not always the case.

We can take courage from Joseph’s experience. Rejected by his jealous brothers, sold into slavery, separated from his family, unjustly condemned and imprisoned, Joseph still maintained his faith. The trials he experienced did not make him bitter; they led him to trust God more fully. Through these trials, God was shaping his character and preparing him for a position of honor in the Egyptian kingdom. One day, he would sit with the Pharaoh on the throne of Egypt as a trusted advisor and overseer of vast resources.

This week’s lesson focuses on two eternal truths. First, though we may go through trials and face difficulties, this does not in any way mean that God has forsaken us or loves us any less. God’s love reaches us where we are, no matter what life throws at us. Second, the challenges we face are often preparing us for something far greater than we can imagine. God has a plan through it all and is working to accomplish His ultimate purpose in our lives. The story of Joseph is the story of a young man who was faithful to God amid a dysfunctional family relationship, but God eventually used him to save his family and restore the relationship he had lost.

#### Part II: Commentary

The groundbreaking study titled Cradles of Eminence analyzes the childhood experiences of more than 400 individuals deemed “eminent” by the psychologist authors, Victor and Mildred George Goertzel. Eminent is defined as superior or achieving excellence in their field, as opposed to having natural talents. These people are scientists, politicians, movie stars, entrepreneurs, authors, playwrights, and sports heroes. The question that the Goertzels raised was, What early childhood experiences shaped the future lives of these outstanding individuals?

What they discovered surprised them. Many of these people experienced childhood trauma. Some were sickly. Others were brought up in dysfunctional families, and still others experienced significant childhood injuries. A number of these children who achieved excellence were raised in loving supportive families. The shocking truth of Cradles of Eminence is that our fundamental choices and the discovery of our real purpose in life are more important than our environment or genetics in determining the heights that we reach and the contributions to society that we make.

This was certainly true in the story of Joseph. Think about his genetic background for a moment. He came from the sin-stained line of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. There were liars and thieves in his family tree. His paternal home was punctuated with dysfunction. His father’s favoritism angered his brothers. They exhibited jealousy, greed, and bitterness. Their solution: get rid of Joseph. Think of Joseph’s journey and remember his genetics and his dysfunctional family environment.

**Joseph’s Challenges**

Joseph was sold into slavery when he was 17 years old (Gen. 37:2). In Egypt, after faithfully serving in Potiphar’s household, Joseph was unjustly condemned and wrongfully imprisoned. Even after successfully interpreting the dreams of the baker and the butler (as Joseph predicted, the butler was freed and reassumed his position in Pharaoh’s service after three days), Joseph was left to languish in prison for two more years. When Pharaoh had his dreams about the seven fat cows and seven lean cows, and the seven full ears of corn and the seven lean ears, the butler remembered Joseph. According to Genesis 41:46, Joseph was now 30 years old. Thirteen difficult years had passed. All during this time Joseph had remained faithful to God. His unwavering faith, sterling integrity, and farseeing wisdom placed him in a position of favor with Pharaoh, and he became the second-in-command in the Egyptian empire.

**Joseph’s Faithfulness/God’s Blessings**

The experiences of the past 13 years had prepared Joseph for the present moment. Thirteen years before in Potiphar’s house, the Scripture declares, “And his master saw that the Lord was with him and that the Lord made all he did prosper in his hand” (Gen. 39:3, NKJV). Joseph’s past did not determine his present. He was faithful to God and received God’s favor, even in the most challenging circumstances. When Potiphar’s wife made unwanted advances toward Joseph continually, he fled. His words to her are classic: “ ‘How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?’ ” (Gen. 39:9, NKJV). When he was unjustly imprisoned, his leadership ability and unsullied character impressed the jailer. Once again, Joseph rose to a leadership position. God favored him. The narrative states, “But the Lord was with Joseph, and showed him mercy, and He gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison” (Gen. 39:21, NKJV). After interpreting the butler’s and baker’s dreams, Joseph did not become overanxious about his imprisonment. He determined to trust God and do his best at the task that lay nearest. When eventually called to interpret the pharaoh’s dream, he took no credit for himself. He simply said, “ ‘It is not in me; God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace’ ” (Gen. 41:16, NKJV). When Pharaoh understood the dream and its significance, he chose Joseph to build the storehouses to preserve the grain during the seven years of plenty because the “ ‘Spirit of God’ ” was in him and Joseph was “ ‘discerning’ ” and “ ‘wise’ ” (Gen. 41:38, 39, NKJV).

Joseph’s genetics or environment did not determine his future; his choice to trust in God did. His faith transcended his environment. This quote attributed to Aristotle speaks to the value of positive choices no matter what our situation or environment is: “Excellence is never an accident. It is always the result of high intention, sincere effort, and intelligent execution; it represents the wise choice of many alternatives—choice, not chance, determines your destiny” (“113 Aristotle Quotes That Changed Western History,” KeepInspiring.me, accessed February 6, 2020, https://www.keepinspiring.me/Aristotle-quotes/).

**Joseph’s Trials Prepared Him for Success.**

The most important factor in Joseph’s fidelity to God was his recognition that the circumstances of his life did not determine his relationship to God. God cared for him, loved him, and strengthened him in every circumstance of life. His difficult circumstances were not indicative of God’s concern for him. In fact, the opposite was true. As Ellen G. White so powerfully states: “Trials and obstacles are the Lord’s chosen methods of discipline and His appointed conditions of success. He who reads the hearts of men knows their characters better than they themselves know them. . . .

“The fact that we are called upon to endure trial shows that the Lord Jesus sees in us something precious which He desires to develop. If He saw in us nothing whereby He might glorify His name, He would not spend time in refining us. He does not cast worthless stones into His furnace. It is valuable ore that He refines. The blacksmith puts the iron and steel into the fire that he may know what manner of metal they are. The Lord allows His chosen ones to be placed in the furnace of affliction to prove what temper they are of and whether they can be fashioned for His work.”—The Ministry of Healing, p. 471.

It took 13 very challenging years, but God was preparing Joseph for something much greater. Joseph had no idea what God’s plans were. He could hardly imagine that he would go from the pit to the prison to the palace. In His farseeing wisdom, God was working for Joseph’s best good. Through this one man, God would save a nation. Joseph’s sojourn in Egypt not only preserved Egypt in a time of famine—but it also saved Israel from starvation.

Joseph never forgot that God had an eternal plan for his life. As Isaiah would write centuries later: “But now, thus says the Lord, who created you, O Jacob, and He who formed you, O Israel: ‘Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by your name; you are Mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, nor shall the flame scorch you’ ” (Isa. 43:1, 2, NKJV). God’s eternal promise to Joseph and each of His followers is that we are “ ‘precious . . . honored . . . loved’ ” (Isa. 43:4, NKJV). He will never leave us or forsake us (Heb. 13:5). Whatever our background, whatever our environment, whatever our family situation, By His grace, the Lord is there to encourage and support us. He is there to lift our vision from what is to what will be. He is there to inspire us with His larger plans for our lives.

#### Part III: Life Application

Some of us in our Sabbath School class come from wonderful, supportive, godly homes. Others come from broken homes or homes where the conditions were, or are, less than ideal. No matter what our home life is (or was) like, every one of us will (as did Joseph) go through some difficult experiences in life. This week’s Sabbath School lesson really has one central thought: God has not forsaken us when we face life’s challenges. If, as Joseph, we choose to be faithful to God in the tough times, He will prepare us for something much greater than we can ever imagine.

•	Read Psalm 139:17, 18 together in class and ask your class to share what difference this passage makes when you are going through difficult times.

•	Ephesians 2:19, 20 describes an accepting family that in Christ we are a part of. Spend a moment in class personally reading this passage and considering what it means to you. Reflect on the idea that, through Christ, you are a member of the “household of God.” What does that mean to you in practical terms?

As you go through this week, remember Joseph’s experience. He was faithful to God for 13 long, difficult years. All during this time, God’s blessing was upon his life. Faithfulness in the present and trusting God today will prepare you and open the doors for a future beyond your imagination.

`Notes`