---
title:  No Food in “The House of Bread”
date:   08/06/2025
---

Some people say that all the evil and sin in this life are proof that (1) there is no God. Or, (2) if there is a God, He is powerless to stop bad things from happening. Or, (3) He doesn’t care about our suffering. Many Bible stories give us more than enough proof to show that none of these ideas is correct. Yes, God allows us to suffer when we fight against Him and break His law. At the same time, God is always there. He always works in human history to solve the problems of sin and suffering. The story of Ruth shows us an example of how God saves us.

`Read Ruth 1:1–5. What hard times did Naomi and Ruth suffer? What caused these hard times? In what ways does this story show the hard times that everyone on earth now suffers?`

The first sentence in Ruth’s story is filled with irony. Irony is the use of words to say something different from what the words really mean. An example of irony is a big dog named Tiny. Or a tiny dog named Lion. In Ruth 1:1, we learn that there was a famine or food shortage in the town of Bethlehem. This verse is filled with irony because Bethlehem means “house of bread.” We would not expect a town named Bethlehem to have a food shortage, right? This verse also helps us remember the Garden of Eden. God gave Adam and Eve permission to eat food that grew on every tree in the garden (Genesis 2:16), except for one tree. So, God’s command shows that He gave Adam and Eve everything they needed to live. But then our first parents exchanged their work as managers of everything God made for slavery to sin. Then God told Adam, “ ‘You will work hard for your food, until your face is covered with sweat. You will work hard until the day you die, and then you will become dust again’ ” (Genesis 3:19, ERV).

We are much the same as Naomi. We have lost the home God first planned for us to have. Our lives have become difficult. God gave Eden to us as a gift. But humans were free to sin. God meant for us to manage the whole earth before sin. But now we must manage a planet filled with sin and suffering. The earth continues to give us blessings. These blessings show us God’s love. But often we suffer more than we feel joy. We can be thankful for God’s promise that this suffering will end someday.