---
title:  Ruth and Boaz
date:   09/06/2025
---

Naomi asked that her name be changed to “Mara.” Mara means “bitter tasting” or “hard to carry.” Naomi’s life became very hard and painful (read Ruth 1:20). Sin hurt our relationship with God. We are the same as poor people who own nothing. Our future seems hopeless. We spend our lives working the same as Ruth on the edges of the field. But everything changes when we make an important discovery: God remembers us, His children, even during our hard times.

`Read Ruth 2:5–20. Why are these verses so important in the story? Naomi discovers who Boaz is and his relationship to her. Why do you think Naomi’s discovery was wonderful news for her and Ruth?`

Naomi couldn’t take control of the land of her dead husband Elimelech without help from her husband’s family. God made a way for people in Israel to get back their land in the Promised Land. Naomi needed a close family member to save Elimelech’s land for her. Naomi hopes that Ruth can marry a close family member from Elimelech’s family and then have a baby to carry on Elimelech’s family name. Boaz wasn’t just a nice farmer. He was Elimelech’s family member.

When Naomi found out that Boaz was a kind man and also a close family member, this discovery was the best news. Boaz could help Naomi and Ruth. They no longer would be poor.

Christians understand Boaz as a symbol for Jesus. Jesus is not only the God who made us. Jesus became our family member, too, when He joined the human race group and became a real human being. That’s why, again and again, Jesus said He was the Son of man (Matthew 12:8; Mark 8:31; Luke 22:22; John 3:14).

Too many people think that God is mean and nasty. They think that He will let us into heaven if we do all the right things. But He will only let us in because He has to, not because He really wants to. This picture of God is false. The picture of God that Boaz shows us is that God loves us very deeply. God notices us the same as Boaz noticed Ruth. Yes, we are poor and have no spiritual riches of our own. But God wants us to be His bride anyway.