---
title:  "Boaz: A Symbol of the Savior"
date:   10/06/2025
---

Boaz falls in love with Ruth and wants to marry her. But Boaz has a problem: there is another family member who also can marry Ruth and save Elimelech’s land. If Boaz is a symbol of the Savior, this problem helps us understand an important part of the worldwide war between God and Satan. Jesus loves us. But someone else says we belong to him.

`Why does Satan say we are under his control? Read Job 1:6–11; Matthew 4:8, 9; and Jude 1:9 for the answer.`

Satan visited the meeting in heaven. When God asked Satan where he came from, Satan answered, “ ‘From traveling all around the earth. I’ve been going from one end of it to the other [end]’ ” (Job 1:7, NIrV). Then God asked Satan if he saw Job. Satan said Job was under his control. What Satan was really saying was that Job’s heart didn’t belong to God. In other words, Satan said, “Job follows You only because You are good to him. Stop being good to him and see who really has Job’s heart.”

The Bible says that God buried Moses after he died (Deuteronomy 34:6). Later, Moses woke up from the dead. The book of Jude says that Satan and God argued about who should get the body of Moses. Satan said that Moses belonged to him.

In Ruth 4:1–12, Boaz travels to the gate of Bethlehem. (Later, Jesus will be born in this same town. He comes to this earth as our close family member.) The town leaders in Bethlehem meet with Boaz and Naomi’s other close family member. “In earlier times in Israel, there was a certain practice [the usual way of doing something]. It [this practice] was used when family land was bought back and changed owners. The practice made the sale final. One person would take his sandal off and give it to the other [person]. That was how people in Israel showed that a deal had been settled [finished]. So the family protector [member who took care of other family members] said to Boaz, ‘Buy it yourself.’ And he took his sandal off” (Ruth 4:7, 8, NIrV). The man gave the sandal to Boaz.

This story happens near the town gate. The town leaders judged problems near the gate. So, this scene is a symbol of God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7:13, 14, 22, 26, 27). God judges in our favor. But that’s because Jesus paid the price for us, just as Boaz did for his bride.