---
title:  Haman and Satan
date:   11/06/2025
---

In the story about Esther, we meet Haman. Haman wants to be an important person with lots of power. The king of Persia gives Haman important work to do. The king favors Haman above all the other princes (Esther 3:1).

If we read about Lucifer in Ezekiel 28:11–15 and Isaiah 14:12–15, we see that Lucifer and Haman are alike. Haman uses his power to hurt God’s people. Haman also refuses to accept God’s control over everything. Satan shows his evil plan against Jesus when he tries to get Jesus to sin (Matthew 4:8–11). Jesus came to this earth to save it and end Satan’s control. Jesus came as one of us. He is our family member and our Savior. Of course, He paid an expensive price to save us.

In the book of Revelation, we see how Satan’s evil wish for control and worship causes the end of this earth’s history. Satan’s lies convince almost everyone on earth to worship the beast power (Revelation 13:3, 4). There is a small group who refuses to worship him. So, Satan tries to force them to bow down and obey.

Haman notices that Mordecai won’t bow down and worship him. Then Haman gets angry (Esther 3:5, 6). He tries to destroy all of Mordecai’s people, the Jews, on the earth.

`Read Esther 3:1–14; Revelation 12:14–17; and Revelation 13:15. What is the same in all these verses? What does John say about God’s end-time people? How are John’s words much the same as Haman’s words?`

The devil says that this earth and its people belong to him. But a group of people on this earth stay loyal to God. This group keeps God’s commandments. Their obedience shows that Satan’s announcement that the earth and its people are his is a lie. “Someday the Sabbath will be the most important test in the worldwide war between God and Satan. When that happens, a small group of people will refuse to follow the popular decision to worship on Sunday. Their decision will cause everyone else on earth to hate them.”—Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, February 22, 1910.

`Think about the “small” things that test your faith now. If you fail these small tests, how will you do when the big test (the Sabbath) comes?`