---
title:  We Are Here For This Time
date:   12/06/2025
---

Sad to say, some Christians talk only about the hard things that will happen at the end times. For sure, terrible times will happen in the future. But we must be careful not to allow our fear to cause us to think only about the hard times and suffering in the future. We must remember how this wonderful story ends.

God shows us the truth about the mess we made when we chose to sin against Him. At the same time, the Lord always gives us hope. Some people are afraid of the “time of Jacob’s trouble” that the Bible talks about. For sure, the final moments of earth’s history won’t be easy for God’s people. But if we can trust that the hard times are coming, we can trust in the promise that God will save us.

In Revelation 12, the devil hunts the woman, the true church of God. The devil hates the church and hurts her. But God saves her. The story of Esther helps us understand how God will save His end-time people. Esther is a beautiful queen. God uses her, the same as He will use His end-time church, to save His people on earth.

`Read Esther 4:13, 14; Esther 5:1–3; and Esther 9:20–28. What lessons can we learn from theses verses about our own experience of suffering during the final moments of earth’s history?`

God started His end-time church for a special moment in history. As the 1,260 days of the Dark Ages ended, God brought His true church out of hiding (compare with Revelation 12:14). God gave His end-time church His final message of mercy to give to everyone on earth: the Three Angels’ Messages. We are here, as Esther was in her day, for this time (Esther 4:14).

Esther learned she wasn’t alone in her fight against Haman’s evil. The king gave her his favor. He helped save her people. We aren’t alone as we enter the final moments of earth’s history: the King of kings is on our side. He will save His people from evil, too.

`Things worked out well for God’s people, at least in this story. But things don’t always happen this way, do they? Why must we always keep the big picture of the end times in mind and how things will end? How will doing so help our hope and faith in Jesus stay strong?`