---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/06/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The First King of Israel,” pages 605, 606, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Satan will cause people to get angry with the small group of people who refuses to accept popular teachings and beliefs. Powerful, famous people will join with the most terrible sinners and lawbreakers. They will decide how to punish God’s people. These powerful and famous people will use their money, knowledge, and education to destroy the good name of God’s people. Leaders, pastors, and church members will work together to hurt them. The powerful and famous will say awful things about God’s people. These evil people will make fun of God’s people and try to destroy their faith. The evil people will lie about God’s people. Their lies will make everyone very angry at God’s people. The evil people don’t have any proof from the Bible to show that God’s people are wrong for honoring the Sabbath. So, the evil people will make laws to punish God’s loyal people. Government leaders will make Sunday laws legal because they want the people to vote for them. But God’s people honor Him. They can’t accept a man-made law that breaks God’s Ten Commandments. The final fight in the worldwide war between God and Satan will be about the Sabbath. God makes sure that everyone on earth understands what the final fight is all about. Today, as in the days of Esther and Mordecai, the Lord will save His people. The Lord will show that the Sabbath is Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 605, 606, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do you think God allows us to suffer hard times? How does God use difficult experiences to help us?`

`How can we, as Christians, get ready for any hard times that may come because we are loyal to Jesus? Where do you find hope during hard times?`

`Why do we think all about the hard times ahead and not about the big picture that Jesus saves us?`

`A friend tells you that she feels afraid about the future after reading the book of Revelation. How would you help her understand the book and be at peace?`