---
title:  The Habits of a Steward
date:   17/03/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Eph. 5:15-17, Col. 3:23, Luke 12:35-48, James 4:14, Acts 3:21, 1 Cor. 9:24-27.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word. With my whole heart I have sought You; oh, let me not wander from Your commandments! Your word I have hidden in my heart, that I might not sin against You” (Psalm 119:9-11, NKJV).

Your habits reveal purpose and direction in your life. Stewards who develop good habits are the most faithful stewards. Daniel had a habit of daily prayer (Dan. 6:10). Paul’s custom was to be in the synagogue (Acts 17:1, 2). He also writes: “Do not be deceived: ‘Evil company corrupts good habits” (1 Cor. 15:33, NKJV). We are to cultivate good habits in order to replace bad ones.

“We shall be individually, for time and eternity, what our habits make us. The lives of those who form right habits, and are faithful in the performance of every duty, will be as shining lights, shedding bright beams upon the pathway of others.” - Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 452.

The pathway that a habit creates is the fastest way that you can take to get the reward you seek. A habit is an ingrained decision. In other words, you don’t even have to think about it; you just do it. That habit can be very good or very bad, depending upon what it is you do. This week we look at powerful habits that will help a steward conduct God’s business.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 24.*
