---
title:  'Habit: Look for the Return of Jesus'
date:   19/03/2018
---

`Read Luke 12:35-48. What does this parable teach us about how we are to relate to the second coming of Jesus? Why must all that we do always be in the context of the reality of the Second Coming?`

Stewardship should be habitually practiced in light of Jesus’ return. The character of unfaithful stewards who act like faithful ones will eventually be known by their actions; for true, faithful stewards carry out their responsibilities by watching and working just as if the master were present. They live for the future and faithfully work day by day. “But our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ” (Phil. 3:20, NIV).

Abraham looked for an eternal city (Heb. 11:10), and Paul looked for Christ’s return (Heb. 10:25). They were forward thinkers, anticipating, planning, and ready at a moment’s notice to meet Jesus. We must also develop this habit of looking into the distance with a steady gaze for the climax of the gospel (Titus 2:13). Instead of peeking now and then or casually glancing at prophecy, we need to be continuously looking, watching, and doing, always aware of the eternity that awaits us when Christ returns. At the same time, we must avoid wild and fanciful speculations about end-time events. The promise of the Second Coming gives us direction in our lives, provides a proper perspective to the present, and helps us remember what is important in life. The habit of looking for the return of Jesus gives a steward definition and purpose.

The cross has paved the way for us to have a rendezvous with the Redeemer. We look for waymarks revealed in Scripture that point us to the coming of Christ in the glory of the Father and angels (Mark 8:38). “So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen, since what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal” (2 Cor. 4:18, NIV).

Yes, death, and the ever-present reality of death, should always help us realize just how limited and transient our time here is. But the promise of the Second Coming also shows us that death itself is temporary and transient. No wonder, then, that we should live in light of the promise of Christ’s return, a promise that should impact how every Christian steward lives. Let’s make it a habit now always to live in the expectation of Christ’s return. Our very name reveals the reality of that expectation.
