---
title:  'Habit: Keep a Healthy Mind, Body, and Soul'
date:   21/03/2018
---

We originally were created perfect - mentally, physically, and spiritually. Of course, sin has ruined it all. The good news of the gospel, among other things, is that God is in the process of restoring us to what we were originally meant to be.

`Read Acts 3:21 and Revelation 21:1-5. What hope is found in these texts for us? How are we to live as we await this final restoration?`

Christ worked tirelessly when here for the uplifting of humanity spiritually, mentally, and physically, all as precursor to the final restoration at the end of time. Jesus’ ministry of healing proves that God wants us to be as healthy as we possibly can now until the end comes. Thus stewards develop habits for their minds, bodies, and souls that promote a healthy lifestyle.

First, the mind will grow stronger the more it is used. Habitually, fill your mind with “whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable” (Phil. 4:8, NIV). Such thoughts bring peace (Isa. 26:3), and a “heart at peace gives life to the body” (Prov. 14:30, NIV). Healthy habits of the mind allow the citadel of power to operate in the best condition possible.

Second, good health habits, such as exercise and proper diet, indicate that we care about ourselves. Exercise, for example, lowers stress and blood pressure, improves our moods, and is an elixir that is probably more anti-aging than anything available on the shelves.

Third, a steward will develop good habits to invigorate the soul. Lift your soul up to God (Ps. 86:4, 5) and wait (Ps. 62:5). Your soul will prosper “as you walk in the truth” (3 John 3, NKJV) and will be “preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ” (1 Thess. 5:23, NKJV).

`Think about the kind of habits you have and how they impact your spiritual, physical, and mental health. Are there some changes that you need to make that could help you improve in any or all of these areas? What choices can you make and what Bible promises can you claim that will help you improve the quality of your life now as you await your final restoration?`
