---
title: 'Bitter Green Mangoes'
date: 28/01/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Romans
12:9–21**

**Bitter Green Mangoes**

A missionary family, called to work in a tropical country, considered mangoes an exotic foretaste of heaven. As this fruit was expensive and difficult to find in their homeland, they were thrilled to know that mangoes were very common and cheap in their mission field. After arriving, they were even more excited when they discovered a big mango tree in their backyard. They couldn’t wait for the day they would pick and eat ripe mangoes from their own tree! They looked to that mango tree as God’s reward for all that they were sacrificing, for having left behind their country, financial stability, family, and friends.

But their anticipation shifted to bitterness when they discovered that all “their” mangoes were picked by their neighbors while still green. Apparently the locals used green mangoes to prepare an appreciated dish from that country. How should the missionary family have reacted? Wasn’t it their right to eat ripe mangoes from their own tree? Should they have complained to whom they came to share the gospel with? Wouldn’t their protests impair their ability to exemplify the gospel to their neighbors, which essentially is God “giving” eternal life to those who do not deserve it?

Therefore, they decided that “giving” up their mangoes was nothing compared to what Christ gave up for them, leaving all behind and ultimately giving His life for those He came to save. After a while they started to try green mangoes also according to the local custom and ended up loving them!

This week’s theme will focus on Isaac and his interaction with the abusive Abimelech (Genesis 26). This account will reveal how the love of money and material gain will ruin the reason we are in this world—our purpose and our mission. At the same time, we will learn important lessons about altruism—the selfless concern for the good of others. This important virtue is practiced by all of Christ’s true representatives, who trust in His promises to provide for them, and are preparing to live in heaven.

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 12:9–21 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Romans 12:14–19. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `