---
title: 'The Right to Dig'
date: 29/01/2023
---

#### inGest

The circumstances were against Isaac and Rebekah as they looked for the best place to live and sustain themselves. Because of famine, Isaac decided to move to Gerar, a region governed by Abimelech, king of the Philistines.

While there, Isaac received an important message from God: “Do not go down to Egypt; live in the land of which I shall tell you” (Gen. 26:2). Even though the place intended by God for them to live was not specified at that moment, two things were clear. First, God told him not go down to Egypt. Second, God promised to be with him and to bless him (vv. 3, 4). But this promise was implicitly linked to following God’s future directions about where to live (v. 2).

Those who consider material gain as their supreme goal in life will end up placing themselves and their families where God cannot bless them. Like Lot, they expose their families to spiritual risks. Satan takes control of the situation, and the result is frequently poor health, broken families, temporal failure, and eternal loss.

Isaac knew that God’s part in the transgenerational covenant with his father, Abraham, included two things: giving him descendants and providing possessions to live on. But possessions were secured only if they fulfilled the condition—to teach their descendants after them to keep the way of the Lord (Gen. 17:4–9; 18:19).

Still without any additional information from God about where to go, Isaac stayed in Gerar and sowed in that land. He “reaped a hundredfold; and the Lord blessed him. The man began to prosper and continued prospering until he became very prosperous; for he had possessions of flocks and possessions of herds and a great number of servants,” (Gen. 26:12–14). We can only imagine how he loved that place, as the conditions for material growth were tremendously favorable! Would this be the place intended by God for him to live?

As it always does, signs of wealth attracted envy. The Philistines stopped up the wells dug by his father Abraham, without which he couldn’t thrive! Additionally, Abimelech asks Isaac to depart from them, which would be a serious risk to his prosperity. Imagine Isaac’s feelings while facing this kind of unfair treatment. He could brag that it was his right to own the wells dug by his father. After all, had not God promised all that land to his descendants?

But avoiding conflict not to compromise his mission, Isaac departed to the Valley of Gerar. There he opened again wells that were dug by his father, which were later stopped by the Philistines. His servants also dug a new well, but the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled about it likewise. Isaac “dug another well, and they quarreled over that one also” (v. 21). Should he have pretended that nothing was happening? Shouldn’t he have stood his ground, defending his rights from this kind of treatment?

Some people are so conscious of their rights that they don’t mind ruining any relationship to preserve them. But true servants of Jesus Christ will always consider relationship with God and fellow humans as of higher importance than material gain. As Abraham did with Lot, and Isaac with Abimelech, they will not hesitate to suffer material loss, if necessary, to reflect their Master’s generous character and to lead others to Him. That kind of loss is credited to their account by Jesus as an offering made to Him. At end of the day He will not leave them in want.

` `