---
title: A “Well” Offering
date: 30/01/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Isaac’s story indicates that we should not fight for a well, even if it was taken from us unjustly. It also teaches that by modeling Christ, we are enabled by His Spirit to put others first, even when they are trying to harm us. It is by no means out of weakness or cowardice that we are called to do it. It is simply done from faith.

This attitude comes from the belief that there is a God in heaven who actively interferes in human business, takes care of our rights, and in due time will fix all human injustices. It also comes from the assurance that circumstantial gains or losses have not the power to interfere in God’s decision to bless us.

On the other hand, those who do not trust in the Lord as their defender will keep fighting to position themselves in privileged place, or will damage relationships while fighting to defend what they believe are their rights. They will always put money and material gain ahead of persons.

This combativeness may be part of an evolutionist mindset that in practice ignores God, prayer, and His supernatural actions on behalf of His creatures. Even nominal Christians may inadvertently adopt a Darwinist mentality of the struggle of the species and the survival of the fittest, fighting for their rights as if there were no God to defend them.

Shouldn’t God’s representatives deal with the unrighteous as they deserve to be treated? Or should we treat others as we have been treated by God’s grace? Paraphrasing Göethe: If we treat people as they deserve, we may remove from them the opportunity of becoming what they could become.

How did this week’s account end? After multiple annoying experiences, Isaac moved again “and dug another well.” When his enemies “did not quarrel over it,” he immediately attributed this outcome to God’s supernatural intervention: “For now the Lord has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land” (Gen. 26:22). As it happens in our life also, God used all those annoyances, not only to develop Isaac’s character, but also to lead him to the place(s) where he was supposed to live (v. 2). The best places in the world are the ones God points us to be in.

Isaac moved to where it would later be known as Beersheba. God appeared to him there, telling him not to fear, “I am with you. I will bless you and multiply your descendants” (v. 24). Now, to Isaac’s surprise, Abimelech came to him in peace, accompanied by two dignitaries. Isaac didn’t miss the opportunity to ask, “Why have you come to me, since you hate me and have sent me away from you?” The answer was revealing: “We have certainly seen that the Lord is with you” (vv. 27, 28).

Is our goal in life to show to others how accurate our sense of justice is and our ability to fight for our rights? Or is our first goal to reveal Christ in our interaction with others? Are we ready to “eat green mangoes” or to “dig wells” as a precious offering presented to our Savior? Would those around us, such as Abimelech, say, “We have certainly seen that the Lord is with you”?

Before sending the entourage away, Isaac offered a feast, sealing with them an oath of nonaggression. In that same day his servants found more water, and he called that place Beersheba, or Well of Oath! God did not leave His children in want!

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What, do you believe, is the most powerful way to reveal God to an unbelieving family member?`