---
title: A Bittersweet Virtue
date: 01/02/2023
---

#### inVite

Altruism, which was perfectly exemplified by Christ at the cross, is a bittersweet virtue. While it frequently generates pain, it also produces peace and joy when practiced in faith. It is often painful because it fights against our natural inclination to selfishness. Ellen G. White points to the power of selfishness as “the strongest and most general of human impulses” and “the essence of depravity” (Counsels on Stewardship, 24, 25).

Satan brings temptations, abuse, or injustices, leading us to fear loss. This kind of fear prevents the truth of God’s goodness and His loving care settling in our mind. He knows well that by placing us in the moving sands of fear, he easily leads us to use physical weapons and to adopt worldly strategies to manage conflicts and finances during crises. By resorting to physical weapons, we leave God’s protective umbrella!

The Lord, on the other hand, allows us to experience unfavorable events so that our characters may be developed and that we may learn how to trust. As it happened with faithful Job, even unexplainable losses may become part of His big plan in the context of the great controversy. So why fear or complain?

As all of us are born in God’s kingdom as missionaries, we are to look more to the necessities of others than to our own. No one can be a missionary while retaining “self.” Every desire for gain, even the preservation of life, must be surrendered to Jesus. It is when, like Jesus, we become ready to die for the world that we are enabled to reflect Him as Isaac did. Because he trusted God and practiced His principles in dealing with his enemies, they were led to recognize God in his life and were amazingly drawn to him—God’s representative.

After realizing what Christ did for us on the cross, we are compelled by His love to lead others to Him. As Spurgeon once said: “If you have no wish to bring others to heaven [or Jesus], you are not going there yourself.” It doesn’t matter if you are a sponsored missionary by the church or a self-supported missionary like Isaac. The kind of relational/material generosity shown by Isaac is possible only when someone understands God’s power, His immense love, as well as their role of being a blessing to all nations of the earth.

It is impossible to impart the knowledge of Jesus to others if our love of money or worldly gain becomes evident to them that we don’t know Jesus. Let this mind be in us, which was also in Christ Jesus!

**Meditate on Romans 12:9–21 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`Jesus was treated in a very abusive way before being killed by those He came to save. Did He give His life, or was it taken from Him by violence? Explain.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`