---
title: Depravity and Divinity
date: 02/02/2023
---

#### inSight

Satan’s aim has been to lead men to self first; and yielding them- selves to his control, they have developed a selfishness that has filled the world with misery and strife, setting human beings at variance with one another.

Selfishness is the essence of depravity. . . . Nations, families, and individuals are filled with a desire to make self a center. . . .

Selfishness has brought discord into the church, filling it with unholy ambition. . . .

Seeking the good of others is the way in which true happiness can be found. Man does not work against his own interest by loving God and his fellow men. The more unselfish his spirit, the happier he is, because he is fulfilling God’s purpose for him. The breath of God is breathed through him, filling him with gladness. To him life is a sacred trust, precious in his sight because given by God to be spent in ministering to others. (Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1940], 24, 25.)

The followers of Christ are not to despise wealth; they are to look upon wealth as the Lord's entrusted talent. . . . But we are to bear the fact in mind that God has not given us riches to use just as we shall fancy, to indulge impulse, to bestow or withhold as we shall please. . . .

Those who put their riches to a selfish use in this world are revealing attributes of character that show what they would do if they had . . . possessed the imperishable treasures of the kingdom of God. . . .

God has given directions as to how they are to appropriate His goods in relieving the wants of suffering humanity, in advancing His cause, in building up His kingdom in the world, in sending missionaries into regions beyond, in disseminating the knowledge of Christ in all parts of the world. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 133, 134.)

Christ, our example, did nothing to vindicate or deliver Himself. He committed His case to God. So His followers are not to accuse or con- demn, or to resort to force in order to deliver themselves.

When trials arise that seem unexplainable, we should not allow our peace to be spoiled. However unjustly we may be treated, let no pas- sion arise. By indulging a spirit of retaliation we injure ourselves. We destroy our own confidence in God, and grieve the Holy Spirit. There is by our side a witness, a heavenly messenger, who will lift up for us a standard against the enemy. He will shut us in with the bright beams of the Sun of Righteousness. Beyond this Satan cannot penetrate.

He cannot pass this shield of holy light. (E. G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1900, 1941], 171, 172.)

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study, what are you personally convinced of?`

`What are some things you can share with others?`