---
title:  A Letter of Warning
date:   01/06/2025
---

### inGest

Paul wrote his letter to the believers in Colossae around A.D. 61–62, during his first imprisonment in Rome. He hadn’t visited the Colossian church, but when he received word that a dangerous heresy denigrating the deity of Christ was spreading, the mighty apostle decided to put pen to paper. The key theme in Colossians is the preeminence of Christ over all creation and over all human and cosmic powers (Col. 1:15–20; 2:9, 10; 3:1).

Believers in Christ share in His death, resurrection, and new life. They are complete in Him (2:9–14; 3:1–4). Jesus is the fulfillment of prophecy, and we who believe share the covenant blessings promised to Israel (Gen. 26:4; Col. 1:12, 21, 22, 27). Therefore, the apostle argued, since Jesus has redeemed us, we will put off the old sinful self that died with Christ at the cross (2:11–15) and put on Christ and the works of righteousness. Colossians 3 is Paul’s powerful appeal to walk in new life.

Paul encouraged all believers to set their minds “on things above, not on things on the earth” (3:2). Earthbound thinking is not for heaven-going Christians. We must change our focus, because our lives have been “hidden with Christ in God” (v. 3). This means we no longer walk in the sins of our past. With the help of the Holy Spirit, who makes effectual the new life we’ve received from Christ, we must put away “anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language,” lies, etc. (vv. 8, 9). But Paul does not stop there. They are things to take off and things to put on, namely the works of Christ: mercy, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, patience, forgiveness, and above all else, love, which is “the bond of perfection” (vv. 12–14).

Paul then encouraged the Colossian believers to let the Word of God dwell in them richly. The word richly can also be translated abundantly. Paul was emphasizing here that to experience the fullness of our new life in Christ, the Word of God must be abundant in our lives. That means we must study and meditate daily on God’s Word, for it is our only rule of faith and practice. The Word gives power to the Christian life. Because Jesus is the living Word (John 1:4), when we study the Bible, we encounter Him, and the Holy Spirit brings Him to life in our lives. Paul closed his appeal by encouraging people of the Word to uplift each other with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, while making melodies in their hearts to God (Col. 3:16).

Colossians 3 depicts the Christian life as an act of worship. Having been reconciled to God through Christ, we willingly surrender ourselves on the altar of transformation to be changed into Christ’s likeness by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Word of God underpins it all and leads us to the heart of God.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Colossians 3. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What does it mean to let the Word of God dwell in you richly?`

`What’s the most powerful part of Paul’s appeal in Colossians 3:1–17?`