---
title:  Let it Marinate
date:   02/06/2025
---

### inTerpret

I love to cook. I make many of the meals in my home, and nothing brings me greater joy than fixing a meal for my family and sitting together to enjoy it. I have learned that some recipes require time for the dish to gain full flavor. Take tofu, for example. In its unmarinated form, it can be flavorless and terrible, but cover it with the right sauce and spices, and the inedible becomes completely delectable. I believe the same thing happens when we spend time meditating on Scripture.

Paul admonishing the Colossians to let God’s Word dwell in them richly/abundantly reminds me of something Ellen White wrote many years ago: “My brethren and sisters, old and young, when you have an hour of leisure, open the Bible and store the mind with its precious truths. When engaged in labor, guard the mind, keep it stayed upon God, talk less, and meditate more” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4 [1881], 588). Ellen White lived long before meditation, mindfulness, and other eastern religious practices became popular. What did she mean by meditating on God’s Word, and does it have any connection to Paul’s admonition to let the Word of God dwell in us?

In the Old Testament, two Hebrew words can be translated as “meditate.” One refers to a low-pitched muttering sound, and the other means to be completely absorbed and focused on something. The biblical idea of meditation is someone pondering, ruminating, fixating on the meaning of a biblical text or passage. This is quite different from eastern meditations, which encourage those meditating to empty the mind and stop thinking. The objective of biblical meditation is to focus the mind on God and think.

In Colossians 3:16, Paul may not have used the word meditation, but he certainly understood the biblical concept of focusing the mind deeply and richly on Scripture. He wanted the Colossian believers to commune deeply with God through His Word. Our worship altars must not simply be places where we read the Word of God. They must be places where we meditate on God’s Word, continuing to think about it as we go through our day. This, Ellen White taught, was a means of directing the mind heavenward to God.

The essential altar worship practice of focusing on God’s Word and spending time meditating on it helps us know God more, love Him deeper, walk with Him closer, and live for Him better.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How good do you think you are at carefully meditating on God’s Word rather than just reading in a hurry? What would help you improve?`