---
title:  The Shortest Verse
date:   04/06/2025
---

### inVite

I once read the following statement from Ellen White: “It is impossible for any human mind to exhaust one truth or promise of the Bible. One catches the glory from one point of view, another from another point; yet we can discern only gleamings. The full radiance is beyond our vision” (Ellen G. White, My Life Today [1952], 26). I decided one day to test Ellen White’s statement by trying to “exhaust” the meaning in the Bible’s shortest verse: “Jesus wept” (John 11:35). I wanted to let it dwell richly (Col. 3:16) in me.

After reading John 11, which tells the story of Lazarus’ resurrection, I meditated on this single verse, noting everything that came to mind. I thought of Jesus’ compassion. These were His friends, people He loved very much. That He, the God of the universe, the very embodiment of life itself, would weep at the death of someone He could raise back to life stunned me. I thought of the fact that He knew Lazarus before he was born. He had fashioned Lazarus and willed him into existence. He had planned out Lazarus’ life and numbered his days. He understood Mary’s and Martha’s pain more than any other human being ever could. Then another thought came to mind: If He wept for Lazarus, who else might He have cried for that’s not recorded in Scripture? And if He cries, do I ever make Him cry? I had meditated on John 11:35 for but a few minutes, and I discovered so much meaning that the truth of Ellen White’s statement became very clear to me.

Researchers estimate that 200 to 500 million people around the world practice meditation. That number is growing dramatically year by year as more people discover eastern practices such as mindfulness meditation, which has gained significant traction through apps and social media. Some people recite mantras, chant, walk and meditate, or use certain beads. What does not appear to be growing in the world is meditation on the Word of God. Why not incorporate this critical spiritual experience into your altar life, into your devotional worship experience with God?

It’s really quite simple. Choose a time and place where you will not be disturbed. Ask for the Holy Spirit’s guidance. Have a piece of paper and a pen nearby. Select a passage of Scripture. Read it in its full context, and then begin to think closely about it. Examine words and phrases and their meanings. Ask God what He wants to say to you about the passage. This simple worship practice will revolutionize your study of Scripture and its application to your life.

### Journal

`Meditate on Colossians 3:16, 17 again and look for Jesus.`

`How does the Word of God protect us from falling into the sins mentioned in Colossians 3:5–9?`

`What has been your richest Bible study experience? How can you bring more depth to your studies?`

`Prayer Response:`