---
title:  Varieties of Gifts
date:  02/08/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 12:1, Paul introduces a new topic with the formula “now concerning.” Scholars discuss whether he is talking about “spiritual gifts” or “spiritual people” because the Greek phrase _tōn pneumatikōn_ allows both interpretations. “Spiritual gifts” is preferable in light of 1 Corinthians 12:4, where Paul clearly refers to spiritual gifts. In 1 Corinthians 12:2, 3, Paul points out that the Spirit’s first gift is the bold confession that Jesus is Lord. In New Testament times, to say that Jesus is Lord is to say that Caesar is not (Acts 17:7; also John 19:12, 15). This was seen as sedition against the imperial power and, hence, was punishable by death.

Jesus and Paul emphasized that faith in God—even in the face of persecution and the threat of death—is a gift of the Spirit. Actually, faith is the most basic gift. Not surprisingly, faith is first on the list in 1 Corinthians 13:13. That faith is a spiritual gift is clear by Paul’s statement in 1 Corinthians 12:9. However, there are many other gifts. The fact that the Holy Spirit distributes the different types of gifts “to each one individually as He wills” (1 Cor. 12:11, NKJV) proves that all of them are necessary.

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:1–6. What is the emphasis of this passage?`

The repetition of “varieties” emphasizes the multiplicity of gifts. What Paul names as “spiritual gifts” in 1 Corinthians 12:1 is developed in verses 4–6, through three different angles: “gifts” (charisma), “services” or “ministries” (diakonia), and “activities” (_energēma_). Although these words mean different things, it is important not to draw a fine distinction between them because of the parallelism of the passage. One should also notice that the spiritual gifts are designed to promote unity based on the triune character of God (see also Eph. 4:8–11). While the Spirit grants gifts to believers, it is God who empowers them to serve Christ in the community of believers (1 Cor. 12:5, 6). Each believer is granted gifts individually (1 Cor. 12:11), but they all are to benefit the community of believers as a whole.

`Notice again Paul’s emphasis on unity. Why is this so important to the church?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The talents that Christ entrusts to His church represent especially the gifts and blessings imparted by the Holy Spirit. “To one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; to another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; to another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues: but all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will” (1 Corinthians 12:8–11). . . .\
In all the Lord’s arrangements, there is nothing more beautiful than His plan of giving to men and women a diversity of gifts. The church is His garden, adorned with a variety of trees, plants, and flowers. He does not expect the hyssop to assume the proportions of the cedar, nor the olive to reach the height of the stately palm. Many have received but a limited religious and intellectual training, but God has a work for this class to do, if they will labor in humility, trusting in Him. . . .\
Different gifts are imparted to different ones, that the workers may feel their need of one another. God bestows these gifts, and they are employed in His service, not to glorify the possessor, not to uplift man, but to uplift the world’s Redeemer. They are to be used for the good of all mankind, by representing the truth, not testifying to a falsehood. . . . In every word and act, kindness and love will be revealed; and as each worker fills his appointed place faithfully, the prayer of Christ for the unity of His followers will be answered, and the world will know that these are His disciples.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 191.

When the judgment shall sit, and the books are opened, many will be surprised by God’s estimate of character. They will realize that God sees not as man sees, that He judges not as human beings judge. He reads the heart. He knows the motives that prompt the action, and He recognizes and commends every faithful effor­t put forth for Him. The Lord uses various gifts in His work. Let no ­worker think that his gifts are superior to those of another worker. Let God be the judge. He tests and approves His workers, and He places a just estimate on their qualifications. He has placed in the church a variety of gifts, to meet the varied wants of the many minds with which His workers are brought in contact.\
The Lord has given to every man his work, and every man is to do the work that the Lord has given him. All have not the same gifts or the same disposition. All need to feel daily the converting power of the Holy Spirit, that they may bear much fruit for the Lord. It is not the one who preaches the gospel that provides the efficiency that makes his efforts successful. It is the unseen Worker standing behind the minister who brings conviction and conversion to souls.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 210.