---
title:  “A More Excellent Way”
date:  04/08/2026
---

“Love is not one gift among many. It is the means through which all of the gifts reach their ultimate purpose.”—Carl P. Cosaert, “1 Corinthians,” Andrews Bible Commentary: New Testament (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2022), p. 1643.

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:1–7 and 1 Peter 4:8–11. What is the role of love as far as spiritual gifts are concerned?`

First Corinthians 13 teaches that only through love can the spiritual gifts be used appropriately. Paul begins 1 Corinthians 13 by alluding to gifts mentioned in 1 Corinthians 12, only to stress their lack of value if not driven by love. Thus, knowledge (1 Cor. 12:8) and faith (1 Cor. 12:9), even a faith “so as to remove mountains” (1 Cor. 13:2, ESV), are nothing without love (1 Cor. 13:2). Without love, the ability to speak in tongues (1 Cor. 12:10, 28, 30) is reduced merely to “a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal” (1 Cor. 13:1, NIV). Likewise, even the important gift of prophecy is nothing without love (1 Cor. 13:2).

In 1 Corinthians 13:4–7, Paul focuses on what love is and what it is not; more particularly, what love does and what it does not do. The verbs he chose to characterize love indicate love is not so much something we feel as it is something that we practice. Thus, Paul mentions that love (1) shows patience; (2) shows kindness; (3) rejoices in the truth; (4) bears all things; (5) believes all things; (6) hopes all things; and (7) endures all things. Conversely, love (1) does not envy; (2) does not boast; (3) does not inflate with arrogance; (4) does not behave rudely; (5) does not seek its own [rights]; (6) does not get easily irritated; (7) does not keep record of wrongs; and (8) does not delight in wrongdoing.

This total of 15 verbs provides solid guidance for appropriate behavior in the practice of gifts. Notably, this discussion on the true nature of love lies precisely between 1 Corinthians 12 and 14, where Paul deals with the conflict regarding spiritual gifts. Indeed, love is the key to the wise use of spiritual gifts. Love is also placed side by side with faith and hope, “but the greatest of these is love” (1 Cor. 13:13, NKJV).

`Why is love so central to our faith? What better way to experience the reality of God’s love than by prayerfully seeking to reflect that love to others?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

I am watching and waiting for the coming of my Lord. I have not only to wait and watch and pray, but must work most diligently as well. Every action of our lives, in our business transactions with our fellow men, is to be regulated by the law of God, and we cannot then swerve from right and justice toward our fellow men under any circumstance; for the Lord will not serve with any man’s sins that would injure his neighbor. With our faces heavenward, breathing out our petitions to God, developing an unselfish love for our fellow men, because we have supreme love for Jesus Christ, who has bought them with His own blood, we rise superior to the most grievous, subtle temptations. Humble dependence upon God is our surety and our power. “My soul, wait thou upon God, who is the light of my countenance and my God” (cf. Psalm 62:5; 43:5). . . .\
In every instance those with whom we associate are to be treated, if in humble circumstances with great deference and respect, because they have so little to make life happy, and because they need help. Souls are too precious to be trifled with. They are God’s purchased possession. Those who are passed by as inferior, the Lord will see set in high places, if they trust in Him.\
The grace of God takes men as they are, and works as an educator, using every principle on which an all-sided education depends. The steady influence of the grace of God trains the soul after Christ’s methods, and every fierce passion, every defective trait of character is worked upon by the molding influence of the spirit of Christ, until new motive power becomes filled with the Holy Spirit of God, after the likeness of the divine similitude.\
Never forget that thoughts work out actions. Repeated actions form habits, and habits form character. Then in giving attention to the little things, there is no fear that the larger things will become stained and corrupted.\
The Bible is to be the rule of life. It is marvelous in the eyes of the universe of heaven that men who teach the Word do not always practice the truth. Few realize what it means to be complete in Christ Jesus, the revealed will of God. His Word is not dishonored by being brought into practical life to form habits which will develop character.—The Upward Look, p. 89.