---
title:  The Gift of Tongues
date:  05/08/2026
---

What about the gift of tongues? In line with the manifestation of the gift elsewhere in the Bible (Mark 16:17, Acts 2:1–13, Acts 10:44–48, Acts 19:6), the gift of tongues in 1 Corinthians is most likely the Spirit-granted ability to speak in foreign languages.

Paul mentions the gift of tongues in the list of gifts in 1 Corinthians 12:8–10 (see also 1 Cor. 12:28, 30; 1 Cor. 13:1, 8). However, he refers to it repeatedly in 1 Corinthians 14. Indeed, the Greek word _glōssa_ (“tongue”) appears more than twenty times in 1 Corinthians 12–14, with fifteen occurrences in 1 Corinthians 14 alone. Besides these, the Greek word _heteroglōssos_ (“another tongue”) also occurs, in 1 Corinthians 14:21. This high number of references to the gift of tongues suggests that this matter is of particular concern for Paul. The misuse and abuse of this gift by the church in Corinth caused disorder and confusion in public worship (1 Cor. 14:23, 27, 33, 40).

`Read 1 Corinthians 14:5, 13, 26, 27 and 1 Corinthians 12:10, 30. What particular instruction did Paul give concerning the gift of tongues?`

The reason the gift of speaking in tongues must go hand in hand with that of interpreting them is that tongues must be intelligible (1 Cor. 14:9); otherwise, there is no benefit in using the gift (1 Cor. 14:6). This explains why Paul put so much emphasis on interpretation and understanding. Obviously, he is criticizing not the gift of tongues itself, but, as we will see tomorrow, the excessive prominence the Corinthians attributed to it, which led to the neglect of the gift of prophecy.

At this point, it is important to notice that although Paul desired that all the Corinthians could speak foreign languages (1 Cor. 14:5), he did not expect that to happen (1 Cor. 12:10). Thus, the thought that “all must speak in tongues before claiming baptism in the Holy Spirit is a perversion of Paul’s teaching in 1 Corinthians 12 and 14.”—Raoul Dederen, Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology, Commentary Reference Series, vol. 12 (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 2001), p. 620.

`Are there people in your church who speak other languages? How can they use this ability to reach other people for Christ? How can this fact help us understand the true nature of tongues that Paul is addressing?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance” (Acts 2:3, 4). The Holy Spirit, assuming the form of tongues of fire, rested upon those assembled. This was an emblem of the gift then bestowed on the disciples, which enabled them to speak with fluency languages with which they had heretofore been unacquainted. The appearance of fire signified the fervent zeal with which the apostles would labor and the power that would attend their work.\
“There were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven” (verse 5). During the dispersion the Jews had been scattered to almost every part of the inhabited world, and in their exile they had learned to speak various languages. Many of these Jews were on this occasion in Jerusalem, attending the religious festivals then in progress. Every known tongue was represented by those assembled. This diversity of languages would have been a great hindrance to the proclamation of the gospel; God therefore in a miraculous manner supplied the deficiency of the apostles. The Holy Spirit did for them that which they could not have accomplished for themselves in a lifetime. They could now proclaim the truths of the gospel abroad, speaking with accuracy the languages of those for whom they were laboring.\
This miraculous gift was a strong evidence to the world that their commission bore the signet of Heaven. From this time forth the language of the disciples was pure, simple, and accurate, whether they spoke in their native tongue or in a foreign language.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 204.

Some of these have much to say upon the gifts and are often especially exercised. They give themselves up to wild, excitable feelings and make unintelligible sounds which they call the gift of tongues, and a certain class seem to be charmed with these strange manifestations. A strange spirit rules with this class, which would bear down and run over anyone who would reprove them. God’s Spirit is not in the work and does not attend such workmen. They have another spirit. Still, such preachers have success among a certain class. But this will greatly increase the labor of those servants whom God shall send, who are qualified to present before the people the Sabbath and the gifts in their proper light, and whose influence and example are worthy of imitation.\
The truth should be presented in a manner which will make it attractive to the intelligent mind. We are not understood as a people, but are looked upon as poor, weak-minded, low, and degraded. Then how important for all who teach, and all who believe the truth, to be so affected by its sanctifying influence that their consistent, elevated lives shall show unbelievers that they have been deceived in this people. How important that the cause of truth be stripped of everything like a false and fanatical excitement, that the truth may stand upon its own merits, revealing its native purity and exalted character.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 205.