---
title:  The Gift of Prophecy
date:  06/08/2026
---

The gift of prophecy occupies a prominent place in Paul’s discussion on spiritual gifts. Interestingly, the gift of prophecy is usually mentioned before the gift of tongues (1 Cor. 12:10, 28; 1 Cor. 13:8). When the gift of tongues is mentioned first, this is only to emphasize its relative unimportance compared to the gift of prophecy (1 Cor. 14:4, 5, 6, 22).

`Read Ephesians 4:11–13 and 1 Corinthians 14:3, 4. What do these passages say about the purpose of spiritual gifts in general and the gift of prophecy in particular?`

The gift of prophecy is meant to provide edification, exhortation, and comfort (1 Cor. 14:3; compare with Acts 15:32). This suggests that prophecy is not so much about predicting the future as it is about how to live in the present. The Greek verb _prophēteuō_ can mean either “to say something in advance” or “to say something _on behalf of_ someone else.” For instance, the first sense is seen in Acts 2:29–31 (compare with Amos 3:7), where the idea that David is a prophet is explained as “foreseeing.” The second sense is seen in Acts 15:32, where Judas and Silas are identified as prophets. Their “prophecy,” however, consisted in encouraging and strengthening “the brothers with many words” (ESV).

From Ephesians 4:11–13, we learn that the spiritual gifts did not cease in the apostolic era. They should remain until the end (Acts 2:39). However, if someone claims to be a prophet, he/she must be evaluated based on the Scriptures. Broadly speaking, four rules should be satisfied. First, the unconditional prophecies always come true (Deut. 18:22; Jer. 28:8, 9). Second, the message agrees with that of previous prophets (Deut. 13:1–3, Isa. 8:20). Third, the daily life demonstrates a commitment to Christ (1 John 4:1–3). Fourth, Jesus said false prophets would be known by their fruits (Matt. 7:15–20). This is also true concerning true prophets.

The book of Revelation indicates that the gift of prophecy is a distinctive characteristic of the remnant church (Rev. 12:17, Rev. 19:10). As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that the gift of prophecy was bestowed upon Ellen G. White and is reflected in her writings.

`What are all the reasons we have for belief in Ellen G. White’s prophetic gift? What questions remain about her role and authority?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The truth, to be genuine in its influence on the human heart, must be acknowledged before the universe of heaven, before the worlds unfallen, and before men. Let no one entertain the idea that he may work out his own salvation or receive the smallest spiritual blessing which the gospel offers, by stealth. The Lord calls for open, manly confession. “Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord” (Isaiah 43:10). Nothing can be effectually gained in advancing in the knowledge of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ until the unbelieving one, longing after Christian excellence of character, shall become as God has intended—a spectacle unto the world, to angels, and to men, a city set on a hill that cannot be hid.—That I May Know Him, p. 214.

None need to feel it too humiliating to. . . present themselves as seeking at the throne of grace for larger supplies. The temple doors are to be opened. The temple of the soul is to be cleansed from moral defilement, altars of sacrifice set right, selfishness cleansed away from the soul, idols sacrificed. . . .\
We frequently have brought to our notice cases of youth who are bewildered by the teachers and the ministry of the Word in the churches of today, because they are doing as the Jewish nation did, “teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.” . . . The Bible is taken as a whole [as] the Word of God, but not all the Inspired Word. One wise man questions some portions of it and some other wise, supposed good man questions another book, and infidelity is stealthily making itself a place in the minds of youth. Soon the knowledge of the truth weakens and their faith is confused. They do not know what to believe. . . .\
When one places his feet on the solid Rock Christ Jesus as his foundation, he receives an endowment of power from the Source of all knowledge, all wisdom and spiritual efficiency, that all may know to which party he belongs—commandment-keepers, or commandment-breakers. The banner of Prince Emmanuel that floats over his head will not fail to clear away all uncertainty and give all to understand that we keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. The love of Jesus Christ possesses a constraining power.—The Upward Look, p. 370.