---
title:  Further Thought
date:  07/08/2026
---

Read Roswell F. Cottrell, “Spiritual Gifts,” pp. 5–16, in Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, vol. 1.

“Let men go forth to labor, trusting in the Lord, and He will go with them, convicting and converting souls. One worker may be a ready speaker, another a ready writer, another may have the gift of sincere, earnest, fervent prayer, another the gift of singing. Another may have special power to explain the word of God with clearness. And each gift is to become a power for God because He co-operates with the worker. To one God gives the word of wisdom, to another knowledge, to another faith. But all are to work under the same head. The diversity of gifts leads to a diversity of operations, ‘but it is the same God which worketh all in all’ (1 Cor. 12:6).

“Let no man despise the supposed lesser gifts. Let all go to work. Let no one fold his hands in unbelief because he thinks that he can do no mighty work. Cease looking at self. Look to your Leader. In meekness, sincerity, and love do what you can.”—Ellen G. White, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 12, 1906.

“We each need the help we can receive from other minds. God will work in other minds than ours. The various gifts given to different ones are to blend for the ‘perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ’ (Eph. 4:12). . . .

“There will always be obstacles before us, but we are to follow our Leader, and meet our difficulties unitedly, hand in hand.”—Ellen G. White, The Upward Look, p. 141.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think a bit more about the gift of prophecy. Why is prophecy more important than tongues if they are not interpreted? If necessary, read 1 Corinthians 14 again in order to recap Paul’s arguments.`

`In class, talk about the life and ministry of Ellen G. White and why we, as a church, believe that she did indeed manifest the gift of prophecy. What great blessings come to the church from this gift? What also are the challenges in knowing how best to use this gift?`

`Think of three to five people who genuinely love you. How do you know their love for you is true? What does this tell you about why Paul spoke so much about love in his discussion on spiritual gifts?`

`However important love is, why must that not be the only criterion in judging whether or not someone is speaking truth and is worthy of being listened to?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Ye Shall Receive Power, “Looking for a More Excellent Way,” July 17, p. 207.\
Ye Shall Receive Power, “Preaching Christ: More Important Than Tongues and Miracles,” July 16, p. 206.\