---
title:  Adam and Jesus
date:   04/11/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ: by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God” (Rom. 5:1, 2).

**Introduction**: Romans 5

**Are You Too Bad for God?**

On occasion I have seen the bumper sticker, “No Jesus, No Peace / Know Jesus, Know Peace.” It reminds me that the Christian community is most fortunate. Many people are looking and longing for peace. However, as the bumper sticker advocates, unless you know Jesus as your Savior, peace is an elusive thing.

As the Holy Spirit reveals to us our sinful state, a miraculous change takes place inside the person who truly believes. They are justified by faith through Jesus Christ. Justification takes away the guilt of our sin. It affords the individual peace with God. Our hearts are assured; we don’t have to prove that we are worthy of God’s love; rather, we are confident that we are friends with God, and the door of access to God is permanently open to us. Knowing that we are not subject to a “score sheet” and that the account is settled in Jesus is very liberating. In essence, we are free to spend more time praising God and less time hating ourselves.

Grace places us in a very favorable position before God. Paul informs us that “where sin abounded, grace abounded much more” (Rom. 5:20, NKJV). Therefore, no person is too bad for God, because He made provision—through the self-sacrificing death of His Son, Jesus Christ—for the forgiveness of our sins. I recently attended a ceremony at my nephew’s school. His mother purchased the ticket beforehand so that I could have access. Similarly faith is like that ticket: faith is what grants us access to God. While it is true that our admission has been paid for by Jesus, we still need faith as the entrance pass to the Father. By firmly relying on Jesus, we are justified through faith and have peace in God. Our faith is the conduit through which justification takes place.

Juli Camarin, in her commentary on Romans 5, informs us that Paul “starts out reminding us [of] several important things. First we have been justified by faith, [and] because of it, we have peace with God. Our justification and the resulting peace only comes by believing in Jesus, when we totally rely on him, then we stand in grace before God, which is a place of favor and mercy. Knowing that this is our position before God, brings us hope in seeing his return very soon. This hope gives us strength to live a life worthy of him. Today, I praise God that he has done all of this based solely upon [H]is love for us. We have a bright future because we are called the children of God.”<sup>*</sup>

<sup>* Juli Camarin, “Hoping in the Glory of God—Romans 5:2,” JCBlog (blog), July 20, 2009, http://www.jcblog.net/romans/5/244-romans-52-hoping-in-the-glory-of-god.</sup>

_Karen N. Campbell, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom_