---
title:  Adam and Jesus
date:   05/11/2017
---

**Evidence**: John 8:3–11; Rom. 3:23, 24

Ellen G. White wrote, “What is justification by faith? It is the work of God in laying the glory of man in the dust, and doing for man that which it is not in his power to do for himself. When men see their own nothingness, they are prepared to be clothed with the righteousness of Christ.”1

She also wrote, “Justification is the opposite of condemnation. God’s boundless mercy is exercised toward those who are wholly undeserving. . . . Through faith in Christ, the guilty transgressor is brought into favor with God and into the strong hope of life eternal.”2 We cannot earn justification; it is a free gift received through faith (Rom. 3:24). Having received justification, having been made just, we are to live by faith (Rom. 1:17). We are to live lives directed by His Word (Matt. 4:4), in His strength (Phil. 4:13). This is justification in a practical sense. Why do we choose to follow the Lamb? It is because we love Him (John 14:15). Why do we love Him? It is because we appreciate what is involved in justification: namely the cross of Calvary. We love Him because He first loved us, and He commends His love to us in the fact that while we were yet sinners, He sent His Son to die for us (John 3:16; Rom. 5:8; 1 John 4:19).

Let’s explore the how-to of justification by faith further, bearing in mind the statement, “Justification is the opposite of condemnation” (consider John 8:3–11). A woman was brought to Jesus having transgressed the seventh commandment—having sinned (see 1 John 3:4). “The wages of sin is death” (Rom. 6:23). We have all sinned (Rom. 3:23). Therefore, we all deserve death or condemnation, as did the woman. But Jesus said, “Neither do I condemn you” (John 8:11, NIV). She was justified, having accepted the forgiveness of Christ. She was covered with the righteousness of Christ. His perfect life was credited to her account. He told her, “Go now and leave your life of sin” (verse 11, NIV). The law was to be her guide (Rom. 7:7). And what was her incentive for keeping the commandments? Love for God based upon a recognition of His love for her. She was saved by grace through faith (Eph. 2:8), she was “justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus” (Rom. 3:24, NIV).

Justification is a gift received by faith; we then experience sanctification as we live by faith thereafter, becoming more and more Christlike as we follow the Lamb wherever He goes (Rev. 14:4). We are to walk, even as He walked (1 John 2:6).

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 111.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, p. 104.</sup>

_Mark Langston, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom_