---
title:  Transformative Power of Justification
date:   06/11/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 5:1, 2

What is justification? What does this experience give the believer? What is this peace that is the result of being justified? What does it mean to have faith? For justification comes only by faith and faith alone.

**What Is Justification?** (Rom. 6:23, 1 John 3:4)

We use the word justify in our everyday language. For example, we are all very familiar with the expression, “Stop trying to justify yourself.” What is self-justification? It is claiming beliefs such as, “I’m innocent,” “I’m not wrong,” “I’m not guilty,” and “I don’t deserve punishment.” All of these ideas are what justification conveys, and it carries the same usage and definition in the Bible.

To be in need of justification implies, in the eyes of God, that one is not innocent or righteous but guilty and deserving of punishment. Yet what is it that humanity has done to be deserving of punishment and rendering themselves unrighteous? The Bible says, “For the wages of sin is death” (Rom. 6:23, NKJV), and “sin is the transgression of the law” (1 John 3:4). The penalty of committing sin warrants that the sinner should die, and his transgression makes him unrighteous. However, it is justification that frees the sinner from the penalty of sin and removes the unrighteousness of that sin.

For one moment, let us make this truth practical and real. Let us examine what Jesus said concerning His ministry upon the earth. He said that the Spirit of the Lord was upon Him to preach deliverance to the captives (Luke 4:18). By whom are these captives held? Jesus said, “Whoever commits sin is a slave of sin” (John 8:34, NKJV). The captives are those who are bound to their sins, held prisoner, and cannot break free. And Jesus said He came to preach deliverance to the captives. Therefore, the gospel brings deliverance and real victory over one’s sin, enabling the sinner to break free from the “cords of his sin” (Prov. 5:22, NKJV). And all this is found in the gift of justification. Justification by faith is not merely freedom from the penalty of sin but also freedom from its power. It is not merely the forgiveness of sins but also the reclaiming from sin. If a sinner is justified and declared righteous, yet sin is the transgression of the law, then justification also brings the sinner into perfect conformity with that law of God.

**“Peace with God”** (Rom. 5:1; John 3:16; Jer. 29:11)

We should take a moment to discuss the concept of peace with God. Romans 5:1 does not say we will have peace and stop right there; the passage says “we have peace with God” (emphasis added). This changes the idea completely from something we receive, like some special feeling many Christians talk about when they are forgiven. This peace is not a matter of feeling but a matter of reconciliation. What is the reality when peace doesn’t exist between two beings? There is strife between them. Is God the source of this strife? Certainly not. The Bible says, “For God so loved the world” (John 3:16), and “I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil” (Jer. 29:11, NKJV). So it’s not God at war with man; it’s man at war with God. For he is the one who rebels, breaks His law, and carries out the hatred ingrained in his human nature (Ps. 51:5; Rom. 8:7).

**“By Faith”** (Matt. 8:8, 10; Rom. 7:18; 10:17)

What is faith? Romans 10:17 says, “So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God” (NKJV). Faith comes by understanding God’s Word. When Jesus went to heal the Roman centurion’s servant and the Roman centurion refused to have Jesus under his roof, feeling unworthy, but asked Jesus, “But only speak a word, and my servant will be healed” (Matt. 8:8, NKJV, emphasis added), Jesus called this “great faith” (Matt. 8:10, NKJV). Expecting the Word of God to do what it says it can do is genuine faith. Hence, justification can only be granted by faith. The sinner relies on the promise of God to grant this gift of righteousness, because human effort and the best attempts to live righteously are all in vain. Paul speaks about the impossibility of human nature obeying God’s law. He says, “For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh) nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find” (Rom. 7:18, NKJV). This is the nature with which we are born: a nature that possesses “no good thing.” However, many in the church believe that without Christ, without the Spirit of God, they can obey the law of God, which is as holy as God Himself. What a delusion! The quicker we dispense with trust in ourselves and completely and humbly receive His righteousness, the sooner we recognize how life-changing justification is.

_Michael Dantzie, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom_