---
title:  A Great Failure—An Even Greater Victory!
date:   07/11/2017
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 5:19

When Adam and Eve were confronted with Satan’s statement, “You shall not surely die. . . . You will be like God” (Gen. 3:4, 5, NKJV, emphasis added), a momentous decision had to be made—trust the Creator or believe the deceiver?

“Adam did not set his mind in defiance against God, nor did he in any way speak against God; he simply went directly contrary to His express command. . . . Adam did not stop to calculate the result of his disobedience.”<sup>1</sup>

Adam’s disobedience opened up an entirely new realm of information, and the ripples generated by that decision fractured the “space” between humanity and God.

“Adam yielded to temptation,” but “the greatness of the act is not that which constitutes sin; but the disobedience of God’s expressed will.”<sup>2</sup> Though Adam realized too late that “sin affects the entire being,” the entire human race. He nevertheless was comforted by the promise, “So also does grace.”<sup>3</sup>

“With the sins of the world laid upon Him, He [Jesus] would go over the ground where Adam stumbled. He would bear a test infinitely more severe than that which Adam failed to endure. He would overcome on man’s account, and conquer the tempter, that, through His obedience, His purity of character and steadfast integrity, His righteousness might be imputed to man, that, through His name, man might overcome the foe on his own account.”<sup>4</sup>

“The atonement of Christ is . . . a divine remedy for the cure of transgression and the restoration of spiritual health. It is the Heaven-ordained means by which the righteousness of Christ may be not only upon us but in our hearts and characters.”<sup>5</sup>

Christ, the second Adam, stepped in and passed “over the ground where Adam fell. . . . He redeems Adam’s disgraceful failure and fall by coming forth from the trial untarnished.”<sup>6</sup> Let us embrace the ripple effect of Christ’s greater victory!

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Reflecting Christ, p. 56.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Letter 8, 1891.</sup>
<sup>4. Ellen G. White, “Redemption—No. 1,” The Review and Herald, February 24, 1874.</sup>
<sup>5. Ellen G. White, Letter 406, 1906.</sup>
<sup>6. Ellen G. White, Letter 68, 1899.</sup>

_Joseph Higgins, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom_