---
title:  Adam 2.0
date:   08/11/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 5:15–19

In Romans 5:15–19, Paul contrasts two men who seemed very much the same. They had the same Dad, the same nature, lived on the same planet, and were given the same choice; but they chose very differently, and their choices had vastly different consequences for all of us. Adam, through his decision in the Garden of Eden to believe that his will was better than God’s, brought suffering, sin, and shame to all of us. Jesus, through His decision in the Garden of Gethsemane to accept God’s will for His life, brought forgiveness, healing, grace, and life for all of us.

Romans 5:17 tells us that sin and death are contagious. Through Adam’s decision, sin spread like a virus throughout the world, touching not only humanity but all of creation. Although sin and suffering entered the world through Adam’s sin, Paul tells us earlier on in Romans 3:23 that all of us have sinned and failed to reach the standard God has set for us. Adam, through his disobedience, gave us the opportunity to sin, and all of us have taken it. He thought it was an upgrade on the design God had made, and we’ve all queued up to get it. All of us except Jesus. He came in fallen human nature, and, when presented with the opportunity to join us in our rebellion, He chose to show us a way to live in freedom and believed in that freedom so much that He was willing to die so that we could experience it too.

How powerful, then, that Paul tells us that even more contagious than sin is God’s grace. It cannot compare to sin because it is so much more powerful than sin is. It has the ability to restore everything that sin has broken. Jesus’ victory over sin and death in His resurrection is also contagious. Once you experience Him, you, too, can experience victory not only over sin in this present life but eventually over death as well. Don’t be satisfied with the life that you’re living now. Jesus offers all of us the freedom to become the best version of ourself—we can choose the ultimate upgrade for this life and eternity.

**React**

`Which areas of your life would you ask God to upgrade?`

`Do you think it would be harder for Jesus to live His flawless life in our generation?`

_Shade Henry, London, England_