---
title:  Death Sentence by Proxy!
date:   09/11/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 3:23; 5:12; Rev. 1:18

It’s not fair! I was not there! I wasn’t even born, so I did not have any decision in the outcome of this whole thing! So why do I have to suffer the consequences of something that I am not responsible for? It’s Adam’s fault! This line of argument brings to mind what led to the shock vote of Britain’s Brexit from the European Union (EU) in the referendum in 2016. Autocrats and unelected representatives were making decisions on the future of sovereign countries. The United Kingdom had enough and voted to leave, throwing the EU into unexpected turmoil. Similarly, Adam became the conduit for misery and mayhem created by his willful decision to sin. Every man, woman, and child across the universe from ancient times has been affected, but thankfully that’s not the whole story.

After noting that Adam is a type of Christ, it would normally be expected for Paul to elaborate on how the two are similar, but he instead contrasts them. The sole point of similarity that Paul draws is that Adam’s and Jesus’ actions both “had far-reaching consequences for all those who came after [them] and had integral connection with [them].”<sup>1</sup> “Paul is not so much comparing Adam and Christ as he is contrasting the effects of their respective actions; Adam’s disobedience resulted in death for all who came after him, and Christ’s obedience resulted in the free gift of life for all who trust in Him. However, this contrast would be meaningless without the underlying similarity.”<sup>2</sup> This does balance out the whole argument about fairness—we weren’t in Eden or at Calvary.

Remember this wonderful declaration which serves as a down payment for His ability to completely liberate us—not in sin but from sin. “Now unto Him who is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of His glory with exceeding joy” (Jude 24). With this promise we can have full confidence in God. He’s going to do the work in us. Continuing from our study on Monday, it’s all about God’s glory in us. He now wants to fully possess our lives so that He can live in and through us!

**React**

`What has Christ’s death and resurrection done for us, knowing that we have sinned and are woefully short of His glory?`

<sup>1. Ben Witherington III, Paul’s Letter to the Romans: A Socio-Rhetorical Commentary (Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans, 2004), pp. 146, 147.</sup>
<sup>2. John Murray, The Epistle to the Romans: The English Text With Introduction, Exposition, and Notes, vol. 1 (Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans, 1965), p. 192.</sup>

_Trevor Johnson, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom_