---
title:  Logic Versus Love
date:   10/11/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 5:1, 2

**Conclude**

In his book My Utmost for His Highest, Oswald Chambers wrote, “The salvation of God does not stand on human logic, it stands on the sacrificial Death of Jesus.” When we attempt to unravel the mystery of how an innocent Person could willingly die for someone who is guilty, it doesn’t make sense to us. The more we try to reason this action, the less logical it becomes. We finally must accept God’s love and response to our sin as something we will only fully understand in heaven.

As Christians, believing in righteousness by faith means we must accept that Jesus’ death paid for our sins in full. Second, we believe that because of this sacrifice, God freely forgives our sins. The sacrifice of Jesus does not mean that being saved is automatic for everyone, but salvation is available to everyone who chooses to accept it.

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “In Christ Alone” sung by Natalie Grant, where it leads one to think about the importance of the gift that Christ gave to us and how nothing that we can do can save us. God alone can save us.
- Composing a song from the memory text, Romans 5:1, 2, and, as you write it, thinking about how are you justified by faith.
- Analyzing in a chart righteousness by faith compared to righteousness by works.
- Using clay or some other sculpting medium to create a symbol that illustrates your understanding of righteousness by faith.
- Reflecting on how you have peace with God because you believe in righteousness by faith. What does your hope look like when you rejoice in this?

**Connect**

1. Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, pp. 15–26.
2. Morris Venden, Faith That Works (Pacific Press®, 2000).

_Ashley M. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA_