---
title:  The Heaven of Heavens
date:  06/12/2021
---

Deuteronomy makes it so clear that the law and the covenant were central, not only to Israel’s relationship to God, but also to the nation’s purpose as the “chosen” people (Deut. 7:6, Deut. 14:2, Deut. 18:5).

`Read Deuteronomy 10:12–15, where much of this idea of law and Israel’s chosen status is stressed. What, however, does the Bible mean by the phrase “heaven of heavens”? What point is Moses making with that phrase?`

What “heaven of heavens” means isn’t absolutely clear, at least in this immediate context, but Moses is pointing to the majesty, power, and grandeur of God. That is, not only heaven itself but also “the heaven of the heavens” belongs to Him, most likely an idiomatic expression that points to God’s complete sovereignty over all the creation.

**Read the following verses, all based on the phrase that appears first in Deuteronomy. In each case, what point is being made, and how do we see the influence of Deuteronomy there?**

`1 Kings 8:27`

`Neh. 9:6`

`Ps. 148:4`

Especially clear in Nehemiah 9 is the theme of God as the Creator and the One who alone should be worshiped. He made everything, even “the heaven of heavens, with all their host” (Neh. 9:6, NKJV). In fact, Nehemiah 9:3 says that he “read from the Book of the Law” (NKJV), most likely, as in the time of Josiah, the book of Deuteronomy, which explains why a few verses later the Levites, amid their praise and worship of God, used the phrase “heaven of heavens,” which came directly from Deuteronomy.

`God is the Creator not only of earth but also of “the heaven of heavens.” And then to think that this same God went to the cross! Why is worship such an appropriate response to what God has done for us?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When Satan declared to Christ, The kingdom and glory of the world are delivered unto me, and to whomsoever I will I give it, he stated what was true only in part, and he declared it to serve his own purpose of deception. Satan’s dominion was that wrested from Adam, but Adam was the vicegerent of the Creator. His was not an independent rule. The earth is God’s, and He has committed all things to His Son. Adam was to reign subject to Christ. When Adam betrayed his sovereignty into Satan’s hands, Christ still remained the rightful King. . . . Satan can exercise his usurped authority only as God permits.<br/>
When the tempter offered to Christ the kingdom and glory of the world, he was proposing that Christ should yield up the real kingship of the world, and hold dominion subject to Satan. . . . Christ declared to the tempter, “Get thee behind Me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve.”—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 129, 130.

The Levites, in their hymn recorded by Nehemiah, sang, “Thou, even Thou, art Lord alone; Thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth, and all things therein, . . . and Thou preservest them all.” Nehemiah 9:6. . . . The hand of God guides the planets and keeps them in position in their orderly march through the heavens. He “bringeth out their host by number: He calleth them all by names by the greatness of His might, for that He is strong in power; not one faileth.” Isaiah 40:26. . . .<br/>
God is the foundation of everything. All true science is in harmony with His works; all true education leads to obedience to His government. Science opens new wonders to our view; she soars high, and explores new depths; but she brings nothing from her research that conflicts with divine revelation. Ignorance may seek to support false views of God by appeals to science, but the book of nature and the written word shed light upon each other. We are thus led to adore the Creator and to have an intelligent trust in His word.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 115, 116.

We are all under one or the other of two great captains. One, the Creator of man and of the world, is the greatest of all. All owe Him the allegiance of their whole being, the devotion of their entire affection. If the mind is given to His control, and if God has the molding and developing of the powers of the mind, new moral power will be received daily from the Source of all wisdom and all strength. Moral blessings and divine beauties will reward the efforts of everyone whose mind is heaven bent. We may grasp revelations—heavenly beauties—that lie beyond the short vision of the worldling, that outshine the imagination of the greatest mind.—_Our High Calling_, p. 80.