---
title:  Daniel’s Prayer
date:  09/12/2021
---

One of the most famous prayers in all the Old Testament is in Daniel 9. Having learned from reading the prophet Jeremiah that the time of Israel’s “desolations” (Dan. 9:2), 70 years, was soon to be up, Daniel earnestly began praying.

And what a prayer it was—a poignant and tearful supplication in which he confessed his sins and the sins of his people, while at the same time acknowledging God’s justice amid the calamity that had befallen them.

`Read Daniel 9:1–19. What themes can you find that directly relate back to the book of Deuteronomy?`

Daniel’s prayer is a summary of exactly what the nation had been warned about in Deuteronomy regarding the fruits of not keeping their end of the covenant. Twice Daniel referred back to “the law of Moses” (Dan. 9:11, 13), which certainly included Deuteronomy and, in this case, might have been specifically referring to it.

As Deuteronomy had said, they were driven from the land (see Deut. 4:27–31 and Deuteronomy 28) because they didn’t obey, exactly what Moses had been told would happen (Deut. 31:29).

How tragic, too, that instead of the nations around them saying, “Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people” (Deut. 4:6), Israel became a “reproach” (Dan. 9:16) to those same nations.

In all of Daniel’s tears and supplications, he never asked the common question that so many ask when disaster strikes: “Why?” He never asked because, thanks to the book of Deuteronomy, he knew exactly why all these things happened. In other words, Deuteronomy gave Daniel (and other exiles) a context in which to understand that the evil that came upon them wasn’t just blind fate, blind chance, but the fruits of their disobedience, exactly what they had been warned about.

But, and perhaps more important, Daniel’s prayer expressed the realit­y that despite these events, there was hope. God had not abandoned them, no matter how much it might have seemed that way. Deuteronomy not only provided a context for understanding their situa­tion, but it also pointed to the promise of restoration, as well.

`Read Daniel 9:24–27, the prophecy of Jesus and His death on the cross. Why would this prophecy be given to Daniel (and to the rest of us) in the context of Israel’s exile and the promise of the people’s return?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The wisdom which God had imparted to [Daniel] was as far superior to the wisdom of the great men of the world as the light of the sun shining in the heavens at noonday is brighter than the feeblest star. Yet ponder the prayer from the lips of this man so highly favored of Heaven. With deep humiliation, with tears and rending of heart, he pleads for himself and for his people. He lays his soul open before God, confessing his own unworthiness and acknowledging the Lord’s greatness and majesty.<br/>
What earnestness and fervor characterize his supplications! The hand of faith is reached upward to grasp the never-failing promises of the Most High. His soul is wrestling in agony. And he has the evidence that his prayer is heard. He knows that victory is his. If we as a people would pray as Daniel prayed, and wrestle as he wrestled, humbling our souls before God, we should realize as marked answers to our petitions as were granted to Daniel.—_The Sanctified Life_, pp. 46, 47.

Move forward courageously, assured that the Lord will be with those who love and serve Him. He will work in behalf of His covenant-­keeping people. He will not suffer them to become a reproach. He will purify all who yield themselves to Him, and will make them a praise in the earth. Nothing else in this world is so dear to God as His church. He will work with mighty power through humble, faithful men. Christ is saying to you today: “I am with you, co-operating with your faithful, trusting efforts, and giving you precious victories. I will strengthen you as you sanctify yourselves to My service. I will give you success in your efforts to arouse souls dead in trespasses and sins.”<br/>
Unswerving faith and unselfish love will overcome the difficulties that arise in the path of duty to hinder aggressive warfare. As those inspired by this faith go forward in the work of saving souls, they will run and not be weary, will walk and not faint.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 7, pp. 242, 243.

Let this be our language, from hearts that respond to the great goodness and love of God to us as a people and to us individually, “Let Israel hope in the Lord from henceforth and forever.” “Ye that stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God, praise the Lord; for the Lord is good: sing praises unto His name; for it is pleasant. For the Lord hath chosen Jacob unto Himself, and Israel for His peculiar treasure. For I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.” Consider, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has a people, a chosen people, His church, to be His own, His own fortress, which He holds in a sin-stricken, revolted world; and He intended that no authority should be known in it, no laws be acknowledged by it, but His own.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, p. 15.