---
title:  The heart of Paul
date:   20/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:12–20_

`Read Galatians 4:12–20. What is the main point of Paul’s message in these verses?`

Paul “ask[s]” the Galatians to “become like me [Paul]” (NIrV). This appeal shows the concern Paul has for the Galatians. Paul’s concern weighs heavy on his heart. Many translations of this verse do not quite capture the importance and full meaning of the word “ask”. That is too bad, because the meaning of the word is rich. The word in Greek is deomai. It can be translated to mean “asking” (NIrV). But the Greek word has a stronger meaning. It can contain the meaning of feeling desperate or hopeless. (Read 2 Corinthians 5:20; 2 Corinthians 8:4; and 2 Corinthians 10:2.) So, Paul really is saying, “I am begging you!”

Yet, Paul is concerned about more than correct teachings. His heart is connected deeply to the Galatians. After all, he brought them to Christ. He was their spiritual father. Paul feels that his concern for the Galatians is the same as the worry and pain a mother feels when she gives birth (Galatians 4:19). Paul thought that what he had done already to “give birth” to the Galatians spiritually had been enough. But now they have left the truth. And Paul works hard to make sure they are reborn safely in Christ. So, he experiences “birth pains” for them all over again.

`Read Galatians 4:19. What result does Paul want to see from all his “birth pains” in their behalf?`

First, Paul describes the Galatians as unborn babies inside their mother. Then he speaks of them as if they were mothers about to give birth. The word “formed” (NKJV), in Galatians 4:19, was used to describe the growth of the unborn child inside its mother. Paul uses this word picture to describe what it means to be Christian. He is saying that it is about more than belief. It involves a complete change. Paul was “not looking for small changes in the Galatians. He wanted changes so big that to see the Galatians would be to see Christ.”—Adapted, Leon Morris, Galatians (Downers Grove, IL: Intervarsity Press, 1966), page 142.

`In what ways have you seen Christ shining through your life? In what parts of your life do you still have a lot of growing to do?`