---
title:  Paul’s example
date:   21/08/2017
---

_1 Corinthians 11:1_

`Read 1 Corinthians 11:1; Philippians 3:17; 2 Thessalonians 3:7–9; and Acts 26:28, 29. What does Paul say in these verses that also is shown in Galatians 4:12? How are we to understand Paul’s point?`

Paul encourages Christians several times in his letters to follow his example. Each time, Paul offers himself as an example of how to live as a Christian. He has the right to point to his own life as an example. In 2 Thessalonians 3:7–9, Paul tells believers in Thessalonica how they should work. They should earn their own living. They should not be a heavy burden to others. In 1 Corinthians 11:1, Paul asks the Corinthians to follow him in putting God’s wishes first. But Paul seems to have a slightly different concern in his letter to the Galatians.

In Galatians 4:12, Paul does not ask the Galatians to do what he does. Instead, he asks them to “become like [to be as]” (NIrV) he is. Paul is talking about how to be, not what to do. Why? The trouble in Galatia was not about doing wrong things. (These things were a problem in the church in Corinth.) But in Galatia the problem was about what it meant to be a Christian. It was more about “being” than “doing.” So, Paul is not saying do what I do. He is saying be what I am. The exact wording Paul uses in Galatians 4:12 also is found in Paul’s request to Herod Agrippa II in Acts 26:29. There, Paul writes, “ ‘I [do not] care if it takes a short time or a long time. I pray to God for you and all who are listening to me today. I pray that you may become like me, except for these chains’ ” (NIrV). Paul’s faith and experience rest on what Christ has done for him, not in his own works. So, the Galatians were placing greater value on works than on who they were in Christ.

Paul does not say exactly how he wants the Galatians to copy him. But the situation in his letter shows us Paul did not mean the Galatians were to copy him in every part of his life. What Paul meant was the Galatians should copy his love, joy, freedom, and trust in Jesus to save. To know Jesus is more important than anything (Philippians 3:5–9).

`Who else do you know (other than Jesus) who is a good example?What makes this person such a good example? Is it kindness? Joy? Being ready to help others? How can you show more of these good characteristics in your life?`