---
title:  “I became like you”
date:   22/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:12, NIrV_

`Read 1 Corinthians 9:19–23. What does Paul say in these verses that helps us understand what he means in Galatians 4:12? (Read also Acts 17:16–34; 1 Corinthians 8:8–13; and Galatians 2:11–14.)`

Galatians 4:12 can seem a little confusing. For example, Paul tells the Galatians to become like him. But why should the Galatians become like Paul when Paul has already become like them?

Yesterday, we learned that Paul wanted the Galatians to be like him in his faith and trust in Christ to save. Paul told the Galatians he had become like them. His becoming like them was meant to remind them of how he became a Gentile. Gentiles are non-Jews. And Paul acted as a Gentile, even though he was a Jew. Indeed, he “became” a Gentile so that he could reach the Gentiles with the gospel. Paul was the great missionary to the Gentiles. He had learned to preach the gospel to both Jews and Gentiles. In fact, 1 Corinthians 9:19–23 tells us that the gospel Paul preached always remained the same. But he used different methods to reach different people.

“Paul was a pioneer. He felt the need to communicate the gospel to others so that it seemed to fit all parts of their lives.”—Adapted, Timothy George, The New American Commentary [Explanation]: Galatians (Nashville, TN: Broadman & Holman Publishers, 1994), page 321.

Paul’s own words in 1 Corinthians 9:21 show that he believed there were limits to how far someone should go in making the gospel seem to fit all parts of life. For example, a person is free to reach out in different ways to Jews and Gentiles. But this freedom does not include the right to break the law of God. Why? Because Christians are under the “law of Christ” (NLT).

Showing how important the gospel is to every part of life is not always easy. But “we should do what Paul did to show others how the gospel fits all parts of their lives.”—Adapted, Timothy George, Galatians, pages 321, 322.

`It often is easy to compromise.To compromise means to give in part way to what is wrong and to go against what is right. How have you compromised in your life? What excuses have you made for compromising? And what can you do to change?`