---
title:  Then and now
date:   23/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:13_

Paul’s relationship with the Galatians was not always difficult. In his letter, Paul thinks back to the time when he first preached the gospel in Galatia. And he praises the Galatians for how well they treated him. So what happened?

`Read Galatians 4:13. What seems to have led Paul to preach the gospel in Galatia?`

At first, Paul did not plan to preach the gospel in Galatia at all. But then he got sick. It forced him to stay longer in Galatia. Or maybe he traveled there to get better. We are not sure. Nor do we know what kind of sickness Paul had. Some think Paul had malaria. Malaria is a serious disease that causes fever. The disease is passed from one person to another by mosquito bites. Others think Paul had an eye disease. (They base this idea on the fact that the Galatians offered to pluck out their eyes to give to Paul.) Others believe Paul’s sickness may have been connected to the “problem” that “caused pain” in his body (2 Corinthians 12:7, NIrV).

Paul’s sickness made life difficult for the Galatians. Paul lived in a world where sickness often was thought to be a sign of God’s anger (John 9:1, 2; Luke 13:1–4). Paul’s sickness could have given the Galatians an excuse to turn away from him and his message. Instead, they welcomed Paul. Why? Because their hearts had been warmed by Paul’s preaching of the Cross (Galatians 3:1). So, what reason could they give now for their change of heart?

`Read Romans 8:28; 2 Corinthians 4:7–12; and 2 Corinthians 12:7–10. What might have been God’s reasons for allowing Paul to suffer? How could Paul help others when he was struggling with his own problems?`

Paul’s illness was serious. He could have used it as an excuse to blame God. Or he could have given up preaching. But Paul did neither. Instead, he trusted more in God’s mercy. “God often uses the troubles of life to show us His mercy. He shows it to us to help spread the gospel.” —Adapted, Timothy George, Galatians, pages 323, 324.

`How can the troubles in your life and your suffering help you trust more in the Lord?`