---
title:  Speaking the Truth in love
date:   24/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:16_

`Read Galatians 4:16.What powerful point is Paul making in this verse? How might you have experienced the same thing Paul did? (Read also John 3:19; Matthew 26:64, 65; and Jeremiah 36:17–23.)`

The saying “speaking the truth” often has a negative meaning, especially in our time. It can describe someone who speaks the truth, even when it is difficult to do. One might make the mistake of thinking Paul’s interest in the truth of the gospel was the only thing he cared about. Some even might believe Paul did not feel he needed to speak in love. But what Paul says in Galatians 4:12–20 and Galatians 6:9, 10 shows how wrong this thinking is. Yes, Paul wanted the Galatians to know the gospel. But he wanted them to learn about it because he loved them. Have you ever felt pain because you had to punish someone or say something he or she did not want to hear? But you spoke the truth or punished him or her anyway. You did it because you loved the person, not because you wanted to cause pain. At the time we say them, our words may seem to hurt the ones we love. They may be angry at us. But we know they need to hear the truth, even if they do not want to.

`Read Galatians 4:17–20. What does Paul say in these verses about the ones he stands up against? He is against their false teachings. What else is he against?`

Paul’s attackers tried to turn the Galatians against Paul. These false teachers pretended to be friends with the Galatians. But they did not love them. It is unclear exactly what Paul means when he says his attackers “want to take you away from us” (Galatians 4:17, NIrV). Perhaps, Paul meant the attackers wanted to take away the blessings of the truth of the gospel from the Galatian believers.

`Think of a time when you spoke the truth and your words caused someone to be angry with you. What did you learn from that experience that could help you the next time you need to speak the truth in love to someone?`