---
title:  Additional thought
date:   25/08/2017
---

“In the Galatian churches, false teachings took the place of the gospel. Christ was the true foundation of the faith. But the Galatians were giving Him up to follow old Jewish traditions. Paul saw that the only way to save the Galatians was to warn them with sharp words.

“Every worker for Christ needs to learn how to meet people right where they are. Paul used this method. Each worker will need to be tender, patient, and firm. But he or she needs to work carefully. It takes great wisdom to know how to deal well with different kinds of people. . . .

“Paul begged the Galatians to return to the gospel truth. Once, it had been their first love. And they had known the power of God in their lives. Paul set before them the blessing of becoming free men and women in Christ through His mercy. Paul believed that all who would be saved must have a true and personal experience with God.

“Paul’s heartfelt words caused many who had wandered away from God to turn back to Him. The Holy Spirit worked in their lives with great power. Then those who once turned away from Christ became loyal to the One who set them free.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, “Chosen in Christ,” The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders and Teachers], pages 385, 386, 388.

### Discussion questions

`1. Think more about the idea of suffering. How do we deal with situations where it seems that nothing good comes from suffering?`

`2. What does it mean that Christ is formed, or lives, within us? How can we know if it is happening to us? How do we remain hopeful when it does not seem to happen as quickly as we want?`

**Summary**: Paul made several very strong and powerful arguments for the truth. But now Paul makes a more personal request from the heart. He begs the Galatians to listen to his words of wisdom. He reminds them of the positive relationship they once shared with him. And he reminds them of the deep love and concern he has for them as their spiritual parent.