---
title:  All Are Included
date:  20/03/2021
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Romans 15–16

All Are Included

Throughout Romans, Paul has outlined the central themes of the gospel and the practical life implications for the individual and the community. As Paul concludes his letter, he circles back to one of his main themes—the inclusion of the Gentiles in God’s plan (Romans 15:8–12). It’s as though Paul is saying, “All that I’ve spoken about God’s love, Christ’s death, and resurrection, the gospel, the law, the judgment, and a love-centered ethic is true. This message includes all people and must go to all the world, even Spain, the next stop on my pioneering church planting mission” (see Romans 15:20–24).

Through the coming of Jesus Christ, the promises of God have all come true (Romans 15:8). This includes His promise that the Gentiles would be singing praise to God for His mercy and that they would put their hope in God (Romans 15:9–12). At its heart, Christianity is fundamentally a missionary movement. The cross demonstrates that God’s love has always included all people. Since God’s love includes all people, the church is called to do its best to reach all people, so that all can be filled with joy and peace when they believe and that they may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit (Romans 15:13).

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 15 from the Bible translation of your choice. If you are pressed for time, write out Romans 15:13. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

``