---
title:  God’s Labels for Me
date:   23/04/2017
---

### God’s Labels for Me

Josh. 1:8; John 13:35; 15:5, 7; Rom. 3:23; 1 Pet. 4:1, 8–11; 5:10

**Tagged as Sinner (1 Pet. 4:1)**

Just walk down the aisle of your local grocery store, and look at the rows and rows of cans. Each one is labeled carefully so that the potential shopper will see what is inside. Did you know that humans are the same way? We each have a label we have been given: sinner.

In some ways, the reality of life on earth for a follower of Christ can be daunting and discouraging. Since the time Adam and Eve hid in the Garden of Eden, we Christians have struggled with the understanding that we will not be able to escape the realities of a sin-drenched world. Romans 3:23 clearly states: “For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (NIV). To be stuck with the label of “sinner” can be difficult for us, especially when we feel the calling to live lives on earth that are pleasing to God.

**You can’t let the distractions of life pull you away from the one Source.**

In addition, Christians who dedicate themselves to living for God often find that life gets more difficult with each passing day. In fact, the Bible speaks about the reality that living our lives for God will result in suffering. 1 Peter 4:1 says, “Therefore, since Christ suffered in his body, arm yourselves also with the same attitude, because whoever suffers in the body is done with sin” (NIV). So how do we take these cold, hard facts and stay motivated to live for Jesus?

**Strong, Firm, Steadfast (John 15:5, 7; 1 Pet. 5:10)**

There is good news. 1 Peter 5:10 says, “ And the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, will himself restore you and make you strong, firm and steadfast” (NIV). Those labels sound better, don’t they? Strong. Firm. Steadfast. As I bask in the warmer feelings of a hope of escaping the “sinner” label, it is important not to forget the path that gets me there—Jesus and His grace.

This is explained well in the metaphor Jesus shared in John 15 about the vine and branches. Verse 5 says, “ ‘I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing’ ” (NIV). So the key is to remain connected to our Life Source—Jesus. With His redemptive grace coursing through our veins, we can rise above the suffering that this world brings and stay focused on the promise of an eternal life with Him. We can remain strong, firm, and steadfast.

However, apart from Him, we are stuck with the “sinner” label and will be dragged down by the weight it carries. The suffering that is the reality of life on earth will eat away at our souls. Others around us will look on us and see us withering away, unable to thrive or survive because we are not connected to the Source of life.

**It Will Be Done (Josh. 1:8; John 13:35; 1 Pet. 4:8–11)**

So what is a practical way to stay connected to our Vine? Study God’s Word. In John 15:7, Jesus continues by saying, “ ‘If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you’ ” (NIV). One of the keys to moving beyond the suffering in this world is to keep the Word of God in you. And in order to keep yourself filled with His promises, you must keep pouring His Word into your life through regular connection with the Bible. Joshua 1:8 says, “ ‘Keep this Book of the Law always on your lips; meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do all that is written in it’ ” (NIV). You can’t let the distractions of life pull you away from the one Source who can keep you afloat in a world that threatens to drown you. Stay connected to the Vine!

If you stay connected and stay focused on the new labels that Christ gives you (strong, firm, steadfast), others will see this by how you treat those around you. John 13:35 says, “ ‘By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another’ ” (NIV). Your soul connection with your Source of life will spill out on those around you as you humbly love them unconditionally, just as Jesus teaches in His Word.

In 1 Peter 4:8–11, we are given several specific ways of demonstrating the life-changing power of Christ’s Word in us: “Love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins” (verse 8, NIV). “Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling” (verse 9, NIV). “Use whatever gift you have received to serve others” (verse 10, NIV). “If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God” (verse 11, NIV).

So, we started life with the label “sinner.” By filling our lives with the Word of God, our labels can be covered over to now read, “Strong. Firm. Steadfast.” With a newfound confidence from being connected to our Vine, we can love people unconditionally in lives that are pleasing to God.

**REACT**

`How have I bought into the lie that I am stuck with the “sinner” label?`

`What other ways can I fill my life with Christ so that His love spills out for all around me to experience?`

_Brian Carlson, Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S.A._