---
title:  A Heart Changed
date:   24/04/2017
---

### A Heart Changed

John 5:29

Sin can be overwhelming and overbearing if we believe we must take it on by ourselves. Thankfully, this is not the case. It is only through the power and strength of Jesus Christ that we can overcome the sin in our lives.

“Christ is the sympathetic, compassionate Redeemer. In His sustaining power, men and women become strong to resist evil. As the convicted sinner looks at sin, it becomes to him exceeding sinful. He wonders that he did not come to Christ before. He sees that his faults must be overcome and that his appetites and passions must be subjected to God’s will, that he must be a partaker of the divine nature, having overcome the corruption that is in the world through lust. Having repented of his transgression of God’s law, he strives earnestly to overcome sin. He seeks to reveal the power of Christ’s grace, and he is brought into personal touch with the Saviour. Constantly he keeps Christ before him. Praying, believing, receiving the blessings he needs, he comes nearer and nearer to God’s standard for him.” <sup>1</sup>

**“Jesus impresses the heart, and the sinner is born again to new life.”**

“Jesus impresses the heart, and the sinner is born again to new life. . . . They looked upon an uplifted Saviour; they lived. They saw the soul’s need; they saw the Saviour’s sufficiency and His claims; they heard His voice saying, ‘Follow Me,’ and they rose up and followed Him.” <sup>2</sup>

“Those who believe in Jesus Christ are changed from being rebels against the law of God into obedient servants and subjects of His kingdom. They are born again, regenerated, sanctified through the truth.” <sup>3</sup>

“Have you been born again? If you have not, then it is time for you to obtain the experience that Christ told one of the chief rulers that he must have. ‘Ye must be born again,’ He said. ‘Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.’ That is, he cannot discern the requirements essential to having a part in that spiritual kingdom. ‘Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.’ If you open your mind to the entrance of God’s word, with a determination to practice that word, light will come; for the word gives understanding to the simple.” <sup>4</sup>

<sup>1</sup>. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 151.
<sup>2</sup>. Ellen G. White, Evangelism, pp. 287, 288.
<sup>3</sup>. Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, p. 332.
<sup>4</sup>. Ibid., p. 459.
Rebecca O’Hare, Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S.A.