---
title:  If You Suffer Because You’re a Christian
date:   25/04/2017
---

### If You Suffer Because You’re a Christian

1 Pet. 4:16

Blood loss, physiological shock, nerve damage, pericardial effusion, suffocation— all are words used to define the effects of a crucifixion.<sup>1</sup> Even the word excruciating derives from the Latin term for crucifixion. We are familiar with this most violent form of torture because Jesus Christ was crucified on a cross. His suffering was real.

**Those Christians are dying for what they believe.**

Murder, rape, kidnap, theft, death, and intimidation—all are words that describe current conditions in the Middle East and other places where Christians are being persecuted for their faith. In the Arabic language, the word for Christian is Nasrani (literally, “Nazarene”). Similar to Jewish persecution under Nazi control, Arabic Christians are a target for terror organizations. Islamic militants have marked homes known to house Christians with the Arabic letter for N, signifying Nasrani, or Christian.<sup>2</sup> Our fellow believers are witnessing and experiencing suffering because of their deep-rooted love for Christ.<sup>3</sup>

Those Christians are dying for what they believe—that is, their belief in Jesus Christ, the Son of God. These believers pose the greatest threat to radical Muslims. To have an army of followers unshaken in their faith, willing to die in order to spread Christ’s name throughout the world, runs contrary to their tradition and beliefs. Has the world ever seen the power of God more clearly demonstrated than when the name of Jesus is proclaimed publicly?

Our lesson this week shows Peter talking to his fellow believers, encouraging them to stay strong in the faith. He believed our actions speak loudly for the faith that is in us. That has been shown to be true in Islamic Middle East and a plethora of other places. Daily we have the choice to live boldly for Jesus. What greater honor than to risk death, assured in our salvation, in the hope that another might find Jesus because of us?

May we not be ashamed to call ourselves Christ’s followers. And may our world see how we live and praise our Father above.

<sup>1</sup> Cahleen Shrier, “The Science of the Crucifixion,” Azusa Pacific University, accessed April 28, 2016, http://www.apu.edu/articles/15657/.
<sup>2</sup> Thomas Seymat, “# ن : How an Arabic Letter Was Reclaimed to Support Iraq’s Persecuted Christians,” Euronews, July 22, 2014, http://www.euronews.com/2014/07/22/how-an-arabic-letter-was-reclaimed-to-support-iraqs-persecuted-christians-n/.
<sup>3</sup> Sharona Schwartz, “This Is Not a One-Eyed Smiley Face, It’s a Symbol of Frightening Things Happening to Middle East Christians,” The Blaze, September 24, 2014, http://www.theblaze.com/stories/2014/09/24/this-is-not-a-one-eyed-smiley-face-its-a-symbol-of-frightening-things-happening-to-middle-east-christians/.

_Kiana Myers, Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S.A._