---
title:  Looking to Christ
date:   26/04/2017
---

### Looking to Christ

Prov. 10:12; Matthew 1; Rom. 6:1–11; 1 Cor. 12:1–26; 1 Pet. 3:8–12; 4:2–6

Wherever we are in our walk with God, remembering how and why we should look to Christ, can only strengthen our focus, no matter where we were previously looking. In looking to Christ, we should remember three key points.

Our need for Christ. Proverbs 10:12 assures us that love covers sins. But what kind of love can conquer death, the main consequence of sin? The love of Christ. We can be born again in Christ, in His love (1 Pet. 4:2–6). What’s even better is that God, because of His mercy, sees Jesus’ love in dying for our sins instead of seeing us as we truly are: unrighteous.

**Despite our differences, we serve the same God and should all desire to share the same message.**

We must accept Him. Christ is our ultimate example of righteousness (1 Pet. 2:20, 21). The famous John 3:16 verse is the best-known example for how we accept Christ and His righteousness. When we accept His sacrifice, we accept His life, death, and resurrection (Rom. 6:1–11). Through this acceptance, we are seen by God through the love of Jesus. And the Bible promises that not only can we strive to be like Christ when we accept Him, but we can be changed to be like Him.

Take the second step. Jesus stated it plainly in Matthew 22:34–39: the greatest commandment, the best way to obey God, is through love. Love God and love our neighbors, to summarize His words.

The best way we can serve Christ is together, through love. 1 Peter 3:8–12 assures us that being “of one mind” succeeds through harmony and the desire to work for the goodness of the gospel. Despite our differences, we serve the same God and should all desire to share the same message. Thus, we should daily be reminded of our humanness and the need for a heavenly Savior who not only died for us but still, to this day, continues to cover our sins with His love.

**REACT**

`What are some daily ways we can take time to focus our minds and hearts? How can we seek to be changed by Him?`

`In a world where the word love is thrown around carelessly, what does it mean when the Bible uses the word love?`

_Emy Wood, Platte City, Missouri, U.S.A._