---
title:  Can Love Be Simple?
date:   27/04/2017
---

### Can Love Be Simple?

1 Pet. 4:7, 8

Many Christians experience life through a whirlwind. From school to relationships to social activities, we all speed through life doing what we can to be our best selves. Now we may have the greatest intentions to serve one another selflessly, but oftentimes we occupy ourselves with so many opportunities that we forget the simplest command to love one another. God finds great favor in those working to honor His name, but how many times can we truly state that we have genuinely loved the individuals we have been in contact with?

**Our characters will be seen, but most importantly they will be felt.**

1 Peter 4:7, 8 states, “The end of all things is near. Therefore be alert and of sober mind so that you may pray. Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins” (NIV). I would like to highlight the phrase “above all, love each other deeply.” As Christians, we are informed at a young age that love saves us from sins, which is a big deal because we can understand it through God sending His only Son to die for our sins. We need to remind ourselves that love is the foundation for all areas of life. 1 Corinthians 13:3 emphasizes that our actions, such as giving to the poor, result in nothing gained if done without love. We cannot succeed without love. Some may argue that love is complicated because we are selfish individuals who constantly sin. Although that is true, God gives us the greatest opportunity to establish a close relationship with Him so that His loving nature may influence us to put love before anything else.

Our characters will be seen, but most importantly they will be felt. Carl Buehner once said, “They may forget what you said—but they will never forget how you made them feel.”* As time passes, people may forget how you helped them, but the character you portrayed will stick with them forever. The Bible gives us proof of the vitality of love. However, we have the opportunity every second of the day to witness God’s love for us. Let us take time to observe how God simply loves us!

**REACT**

`In your personal life, how have you witnessed God’s love?`

`What other Bible passages encourage the love-simply theme?`

* Richard L. Evans, Richard Evans’ Quote Book (Salt Lake City, Utah: Publishers Press, 1971), p. 244.

_Amy Grigore, Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S.A._