---
title:  Triumph Over Sin
date:   28/04/2017
---

### Triumph Over Sin


**CONCLUDE**

Being a Christian isn’t only for the good times. There is grit and struggle involved in resisting and overcoming sin. It requires a steady diet of Scripture, continuing prayer, and a focus on the end goal: life with the Father forever in heaven. Triumph over sin is possible, through the shed blood of Jesus and the confession of faith in Him. Jesus can—and will—change our natures, if we will but ask and allow!

**CONSIDER**

- Listing some of the distractions in everyday life that can keep you from focusing on Christ, and then listing some of the ways you can block out these distractions. An illustration on the Internet shows the symbols for Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and other online services, with the words of Mark 1:18 below: “ At once they left their NETS and followed [Jesus]” (NIV).
- Reading Romans 6:1, where the apostle Paul asks, “Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase?” (NIV). How would you explain to a new believer why it is so important to abandon the old way of life and surrender one’s will to obey God?
- Drawing small posters (or large ones if supplies are available) illustrating God’s power to help us overcome sin and draw close to Him.
- Setting up a question-and-answer time with well-established church members. Ask them how they keep close to God and how they fight sin in their lives. And ask them what they do when they stumble. (Details of a lapse aren’t necessary; just get a sense of how they respond and return to God.)
- Keeping a journal, or diary, for a week. Note the times and ways you were able to resist sin, and what Bible verses you used. • Discussing your experiences of drawing closer to God, and sharing your best ideas with the class.
- Creating flash cards of Bible verses to memorize as part of a plan to resist sin. “I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you” (Ps. 119:11, NIV). Tell the class why you selected these specific verses.

**CONNECT**

Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, chap. 8, “Growing Up Into Christ.”

_Mark A. Kellner, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A._