---
title:  God Keeps His Promises!
date:  13/12/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Joshua 21:43–45; Joshua 23:1–5; Joshua 23:6–8, 12, 13; Joshua 23:15, 16; Joshua 23:11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord kept every promise that he made to the Israelites. There were no promises that he failed to keep. Every promise came true” (Joshua 21:45, ERV).

When John F. Kennedy became the president of the USA, on January 20, 1961, he spoke to the country. Kennedy’s talk was only 1,366 words long. But his words became famous. Kennedy encouraged Americans to serve their country first and not ask the country to serve them. Kennedy said, “Our reward shall be knowing that we do right. History will be our judge. History will show that we chose to do the right thing. So, let us be leaders in this land that we love. Let us ask God for His blessing and His help. While we are here on this earth, God’s work must become our work.”

When Joshua was old, he knew he was going to die soon. So, he decided to talk to the leaders of Israel and the people (Joshua 23 and 24). Joshua 23 talks more about the future and how to worship God. Joshua 24 talks about God’s promises to His people in the past. This chapter also talks about the only Person who is worthy of our worship. How should we worship God? With all our hearts. Who is worthy of our worship? The Lord.

This week, we study the first talk of Joshua. In this talk, he looks back at the wars God won for Israel. At the same time, Joshua looks at how Israel can enjoy success in the future.