---
title:  God Kept His Promises
date:  14/12/2025
---

`What does Joshua 21:43–45 tell us about God and the Promised Land? What do these words teach us about God’s plan to save us (2 Timothy 2:11–13)?`

Joshua 21:43–45 talks about one of the most important topics in the whole book: the Lord keeps His promises. These verses also tell us, in short, everything that has happened in the book of Joshua so far. Joshua 21:43 talks about how the land was divided and settled. (We can read all about those things in Joshua 13–21.) Joshua 21:44 talks about the wars Israel fought. This verse also says that Israel got control over the land. (We can read more about that topic in Joshua 1–12.) All this past history shows Israel that God keeps His promises to them. The Israelites must remember not to say they won the wars or the land on their own. They won because God kept His promises. God promised to fight for them and give them the land.

God “gave the people all the land that he had promised” (Joshua 21:43, ERV). “The Lord allowed the Israelites to defeat every enemy” (Joshua 21:44, ERV). The Lord “promised their people of long ago that he would do that” (Joshua 21:44, NIrV). “The Lord kept every promise that he made to the Israelites” (Joshua 21:45, ERV). These verses show that the land is the Lord’s gift to His people. Israel can’t brag that they got the land on their own. The Lord promised to give them the land. He won their wars.

All of Israel’s success came from God. The same thing is true about our being saved. “God’s grace [mercy] has saved you because of your faith in Christ. Your salvation [God’s saving mercy] doesn’t come from anything you do. It [mercy] is God’s gift. It [God’s mercy] is not based on anything you have done. No one can brag about earning it” (Ephesians 2:8, 9, NIrV). Paul also wrote, “If we died with him, then we will also live with him. If we accept suffering, then we will also rule [be a leader] with him. If we say we don’t know him, then he will say he doesn’t know us. If we are not faithful [don’t keep our promises], he will still be faithful [keep His promises], because he must be true to who he is” (2 Timothy 2:11–13, ICB).

`God kept all His promises in the past. How does this Bible truth help us trust that He will keep all His promises for the future?`