---
title:  Success Depends On Our Trust In God
date:  15/12/2025
---

God’s promises to Israel depend on if the people obey. They won’t enjoy success if they don’t obey God. That’s because success is always connected with their obedience to Bible truth. The land is proof of God’s love for His people. The land shows that God keeps His promises (Nehemiah 9:8). As long as the Israelites continue to obey God, God will give them the rest of the land. Will the people hold on to what God already gave them?

`Read Joshua’s sermon in Joshua 23:1–5. What are the important parts of Joshua’s introduction to his sermon?`

The Israelites will need to finish the work God gave them to win the rest of the land. Joshua explains how Israel will do that. They can win only if the Lord helps them. But first Israel must learn from its past. The Israelites doubted the Lord and His promises after He helped them escape from Egypt. So, the Lord taught Israel a lesson. Israel needed to learn to trust God. That’s why God allowed Israel to fight with Him. The Israelites also must remember that they didn’t win because of their strength. They won because God fought for them. He gave them their land, too.

God also gave Israel peace and rest. But now the Israelites must fight some of the people who live in the rest of the land God promised them. God’s people can win these fights. But they must remember that they will win only with God’s help.

`Compare how the Israelites won the Promised Land with how Christians can win the fight against sin. How are these two fights the same? Read Joshua 23:10; Colossians 2:15; 2 Corinthians 10:3–5; and Ephesians 6:11–18 for the answer.`

The Israelites didn’t win their fights because of their own strength and skill. They won because the Lord fought for them. In the same way, we win the fight against sin because of the things Jesus did for us and is doing now. Jesus died for us on the cross. He goes to the Father for help for us today. We must depend completely on God for success. The Holy Spirit will help us win the fight over sin.

`God gives us so many wonderful promises to win the fight against sin. So, why do we keep on sinning?`