---
title:  Strong Borders
date:  16/12/2025
---

Joshua tells Israel that the work that they must do includes more than fighting wars. Their work is spiritual. Their work includes obeying God and keeping His laws.

`Why do you think Joshua was so strict with the Israelites about their relationships with people from foreign countries? Read Joshua 23:6–8, 12, 13 for the answer.`

The people from the countries around Israel are a danger to Israel. Why? God fought for Israel. So, Israel didn’t need to be afraid of the weapons of its enemies. The real risk was friendship with the enemy. The Israelites needed to be on guard against the false ideas and beliefs of the people around them. These could be a worse danger than any army. Joshua helps the leaders of Israel to remember that their war is a spiritual one, not just a military battle. So, the Israelites must be careful not to worship the false gods of their enemies. If the Israelites do, they will no longer be God’s special people. They will become the same as the people around them.

Joshua commands the Israelites not to say the name of any false god. The Israelites must not make promises in the name of these gods. The Israelites must not bow down to them or serve them either. In Bible times, a god’s name held his power and life. If you said the name of one of these foreign gods, then you gave that god power over you. So, the Israelites must not say these gods’ names in their everyday greetings or in their business deals. The Israelites must not seek help from these gods in their time of need (compare with Judges 2:1–3, 11–13).

Also, the people of Israel must not marry any of the Canaanites who lived in the land. Why? Because marriages with Canaanites would cause Israel to stop worshiping God. Just look at what happened with Solomon later on. His story is a sad example of what happens when we marry people who don’t worship the Lord (1 Kings 3:1; 1 Kings 11:1–8). In the New Testament, Christians are warned not to marry people who don’t believe in Jesus (2 Corinthians 6:14). Paul does say that a Christian who is married to a non-Christian should not divorce. Paul commands them to stay married and to live a powerful Christian life. Then maybe they will win their husband or wife to the Lord (1 Corinthians 7:12–16).