---
title:  The Lord’s Anger
date:  17/12/2025
---

`What does Joshua say about the Lord’s anger and His punishment of sin (Joshua 23:15, 16)? What does the Bible say elsewhere about this topic? Read Numbers 11:33; 2 Chronicles 36:16; Revelation 14:10, 19; Revelation 15:1.) How should we understand these Bible truths?`

God was very angry with the Israelites at times when they were in the desert (Numbers 11:33; Numbers 12:9) and in the Promised Land (Joshua 7:1). So, the Israelites knew what would happen if they broke God’s law. Joshua 23:15, 16 may surprise us because Joshua uses very sharp words. The Lord will destroy Israel, the same as the Canaanites, if the people break their agreement with Him. Then the Lord will punish Israel with all the curses in their agreement (Leviticus 26; Deuteronomy 28). These verses show that the Lord is the Judge of the whole earth. The Lord announces His war against sin, even when He finds it in Israel. Israel wasn’t made holy because of the people’s good behavior. Their fighting in God’s holy wars didn’t make them holy either.

Israel must choose if it wants to have a future filled with glory. Or it can choose a life of sin and face God’s anger.

The Bible’s teachings on God’s anger may confuse us at first. The Bible tells us that God is loving. He also is love (John 3:16; 1 John 4:8). So, we may think the idea is strange that God’s anger can help us understand His love. The Bible shows us a powerful picture of this love. God is caring and patient. He is ready to forgive (Exodus 34:6; Micah 7:18). At the same time, God’s anger is part of His holy love against sin and evil. God’s anger isn’t a feeling. His anger is never mean and nasty. God’s anger is not revenge. When God punishes sin, He isn’t getting even with us for breaking His law. The New Testament teaches that Jesus became sin for us (2 Corinthians 5:21). When Jesus died, He made a way for God to accept us (Romans 5:10). Whoever believes in God will not be punished with His anger (John 3:36; Ephesians 2:3; 1 Thessalonians 1:10). God’s anger helps us understand that God is a holy Judge. So, we can trust God always to be fair when He punishes sin and evil (Psalm 7:11; Psalm 50:6; 2 Timothy 4:8).