---
title:  Hold On To God
date:  18/12/2025
---

The Israelites must not worship false gods. How can they guard against this sin? They must “hold” on tight to God (Deuteronomy 4:4). This same Hebrew word is used to talk about marriage (Genesis 2:24) and Ruth’s loyalty to Naomi (Ruth 1:14). Joshua says that Israel has held on tight to God to this day. Sad to say, no one can say that about Israel later on, as we see in the book of Judges (Judges 2:2, 7, 11; Judges 3:7, 12; Judges 4:1).

`Joshua tells Israel to love the Lord their God (Joshua 23:11; compare with Deuteronomy 6:5). Love can’t be forced. If love is forced, it will not be love. So, what does Joshua mean when he commands Israel to love the Lord?`

If the Israelites want to continue to enjoy the blessings of God’s promise, they must stay loyal to God. So, the Israelites must be very careful. They must always remember to “love” the Lord. The Hebrew word “ ’ahabah” can be used to talk about many different types of love: friendship, sex, a mother’s love, romance, and loyalty to God. Love for God is a decision we make to give our lives fully to Him and serve Him. When we understand this Bible truth, we can understand better Joshua’s command to Israel to love God. (Compare with John 13:34.) God wants our obedience to His commands to come from our personal love relationship with Him (Exodus 19:4; Deuteronomy 6:5; compare with Matthew 22:37). We love God because of everything He does for us. He did these things because of His love and mercy.

The command to love God also helps us to understand God’s love. God wants to enter into a personal relationship with every person who accepts His love. So, God’s love for everyone helps us to love Him, too.

`Jesus gave a new commandment to His followers. How is this commandment both old and new at the same time? Read John 13:34; John 15:17; and 1 John 3:11 for the answer. (Compare with Leviticus 19:18.)`