---
title:  The Foreigners Living In Your Towns
date:  23/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Deuteronomy 10:14–16; Deuteronomy 10:17–19; Matthew 7:12; Deuteronomy 16:19.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘So show your love for the stranger. For you were strangers in the land of Egypt’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:19, NLV).

LAST WEEK, we read about the Jewish teacher who asks Jesus a question about the law. The teacher wants to know, “ ‘Which is the most important of all the commandments?’ ” (Mark 12:28, NIrV). Jesus answers first by saying that God is the only God. Then Jesus tells the teacher to “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your strength’ ” (Mark 12:30, ERV). “ ‘This is the first Law’ ” (Mark 12:30, NLV).

Jesus does not stop there. He also talks about “ ‘the second most important command’ ” (Mark 12:31, ERV). Do you see that the teacher of the law does not ask Jesus about this second law? But Jesus tells him about this law anyway. Why? Because the second law is also important. So, Jesus says, “ ‘The second most important command is this: “Love your neighbor the same as you love yourself” ’ ” (Mark 12:31, ERV). Jesus wants to be sure we know that these laws were very important. So, Jesus adds, “ ‘No law is greater [more important] than these laws’ ” (Mark 12:31, WE).

No laws more important than these two laws? That is right. That is why Jesus connects love for God and love for our neighbor in one law: love. Our love for other people is a way we show our love for God.