---
title:  “ ‘give Your Hearts To The Lord’ ” 
date:  24/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Deuteronomy 10 talks more about the agreement between God and His people. God says how much He wants to keep the past agreement He made with Israel. For sure, much of Deuteronomy shows us how God wants to continue His agreement. Yes, God wants to keep the agreement with His people, even after their awful sin at Horeb. Remember what happened at Horeb as soon as Moses left the people alone for a little while? They started to worship the gold cow. But God was not done with His people. Not then, and not now. God continues to love them.

Read Deuteronomy 10:1–11. What is happening in these verses? How does the story here help us understand that God forgives His people for their sin? How do these verses also show the people that God wants to keep the agreement promises He made to their fathers in the past?

Moses smashed the Ten Commandments, which God wrote on “ ‘two pieces of stone’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:17, NLV). The broken stones showed that the people broke the agreement with God. “Moses wanted to show the people how much he hated their crime. So, Moses threw down the stones of the agreement. The stones broke in front of the people. This act showed the people they broke their agreement with God, So, God also broke His agreement with them.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 320, adapted.

Later, the Lord asks Moses to cut two new pieces of stone the same as the first that Moses broke. Then God writes on them the words that were on the first stones. When God writes the law on the new stones, He shows His people that He forgives them.

`Read Deuteronomy 10:14–16. What does God say in these verses to His people?`

What does God want from His people? He wants their minds and hearts. That is, God wants their trust and their love. The people are stubborn. So often, they do not obey the Lord. That is why Moses says, “ ‘Stop being stubborn. Give your hearts to God’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:16, ERV).

`Think about all the times God forgives you. What does His forgiveness show you about His mercy?`