---
title:  Love The Stranger 
date:  25/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Moses warns the people not to fail to keep the agreement. Moses also tells the people that God is very powerful: “ ‘The heavens [the skies] belong to the Lord your God. Even the highest [the most far away] heavens [stars and planets] belong to him. He owns the earth and everything in it’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:14, NIrV). Moses shows us that God controls everything. We also see this idea in other parts of the Bible: “The earth and everything on it belong to the Lord. The world [the earth and everything on it] and all its people belong to him” (Psalm 24:1, ERV).

`Read Deuteronomy 10:17–19. What else does Moses say in these verses about the Lord? More important, What does the Lord command His people to do because of this announcement?`

God is the King of heaven and earth. Moses explains that the Lord also is the “ ‘the greatest [most powerful] God of all. He is the greatest Lord of all’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:17, NIrV). Is Moses saying there are other gods? Not at all! There are no other gods. Moses uses language in a special way in this verse. He wants to show Israel that God is more than the only God. God is above everyone and everything in heaven and earth, real or make believe. That is why God announces, “ ‘ “Now, see that I, and only I, am God! There is no other God!” ’ ” (Deuteronomy 32:39, ERV).

What else does Moses say about God? “ ‘He is the great [powerful] God. He is mighty and wonderful. He treats [judges and loves] everyone the same. He doesn’t accept any money from those [people] who want special favors’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:17, NIrV). These verses are part of a bigger message: The Lord is the God of Israel. So, the people must be sure to obey Him.

Moses wants the people to understand another important idea, too. This same mighty and all-powerful God also cares about orphans, widows, and strangers. God sees when a small bird falls to the ground (Matthew 10:29). So, He knows about the troubles of the needy and the helpless. God wants His people to care for the helpless and needy, too. That is why God makes loving other people part of His agreement.

`What is the message of Psalm 146:5–10? How does this message show us the Bible truth about God in Deuteronomy? What does this message in Psalm 146 mean to us today?`