---
title:  Because You Were Strangers In Egypt 
date:  26/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What message does Moses give in Deuteronomy 10:19 to the Israelites? What message is there for us, too?`

Hundreds of years earlier, God told Abram: “ ‘You can be sure of what I am about to tell you. For 400 years, your family who comes after you will be strangers in another country. They will become slaves there and will be treated [the way people feel about you and the things they do to you because of their feelings] badly’ ” (Genesis 15:13, NIrV; read also Genesis 17:8; Acts 13:17). Everything God tells Abram happens exactly as God says. In Exodus, we read the surprising story about how God saves and frees the Israelites from the Egyptians (Exodus 15:13; Exodus 14:13). This story is a word picture for the mercy God shows us in Jesus. In Deuteronomy 10:19, God wants His people to remember what He saved them from. God also wants them to remember what they used to be: strangers in another land.

In other words, God wants His people to remember what the Egyptians did to them. The Egyptians were stronger than the Israelites. Often, the Egyptians were not fair or kind. They used their strength to hurt the people of God. That is why God wanted His people to remember how they felt when they were slaves. Yes, God chose Israel to be His special people and a kingdom of religious leaders (Exodus 19:6). So, God separated His people from other people. But that is where the separation ended. For sure, Israel was different from other people in many things. But God expected His people to be as fair and kind to other people as they wanted God to be with them.

`Read Matthew 7:12. In what way does this verse show us how the Lord wanted the Israelites to be kind and fair to other people?`

People in Old Testament times were not very nice to other people who did not belong to their group, country, or religion. How did people during that time act and feel about strangers? As if the strangers were animals, and sometimes even worse than that.

God did not want Israel to behave this way. God wanted Israel to show the people around them a better way to live. God planned for this better way of life to be a powerful witness to other people about God and their faith.