---
title:  “ ‘always Be Fair’ ” 
date:  27/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God wants us to show everyone His love. How do we do that? Paul explains: “My little children, I am in pain again over you, like [the same as] a mother giving birth [when her child is being born]. I will feel this pain until people can look at you and see Christ [Jesus]” (Galatians 4:19, ERV). Before sin, we showed Jesus and His love: “So God created [made] humans in his own image [a copy of Himself]” (Genesis 1:27). Later, sin destroyed our connection to God. That is why God made His agreement with humans. His agreement made the way possible for His people to be examples of His love again. Moses explains how this love will cause humans to behave. Love causes us to be fair. That is why Moses said God does trade His favor for money. So, we should do the same as God does.

What is the same message in each of the verses below?

Deuteronomy 1:16 __________________________________________

Deuteronomy 16:19 _________________________________________

Deuteronomy 24:17 _________________________________________

Deuteronomy 27:19 _________________________________________

We all know stories about judges who are not fair to the poor and needy. We see that people with money, power, and connections often escape punishment. The Lord says that His people must not let this evil happen in Israel. The Israelites always must be fair in all their decisions. Everyone in Israel should get a fair decision in court.

God wants His people to be fair for another reason, too. When we show we are fair, other people see God and His love. God tells His people, “ ‘ “Be holy, because I am holy” ’ ” (Leviticus 19:2, NIrV). The Israelites knew who God was. They knew the right way to worship God and the correct offerings to bring Him, too. But what good does that knowledge do them if they are not fair to the poor?

`Read Amos 2:6; Amos 4:1; Amos 5:11; Isaiah 3:14, 15; Isaiah 10:1, 2; and Jeremiah 2:34. What warnings do these verses give the Israelites about not hurting the weak and helpless? How should these verses cause us to live today?`