---
title:  The Religion God Accepts 
date:  28/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Deuteronomy 24:10–15. What important rules do these verses show us about how we should be kind to the people who are under our control?`

Again, these verses show us that God expects us to be kind to people. What if someone owes you something? God expects you to show this person some respect. Do not go barge into his house and order him to give back the loan. Wait outside and let him come and give you the loan. Deuteronomy 24:12, 13 also shows that you should be kind to a poor person who owes you something. What if he gives you his coat as a promise that he will pay back a loan he borrowed? Fine, you may take his coat. But you must not keep his coat overnight. You must give it back to him so that he can keep himself warm. The other verses in this chapter show us that we must be kind to the poor who work for us. Do not hurt the poor in any way. In the eyes of God, hurting the poor is an awful sin. Again, God wants Israel to be His witnesses. He wants Israel to show His love to the people on the earth who worship false gods and practice evil and sin. But how can Israel show the love of God if they are not kind to people that nobody else thinks are important?

Read James 1:27–2:11. What does James say here? How do his words show the same thing the Lord tells His people in Deuteronomy 24? Do you see that James talks about the Ten Commandments when he talks about how people hurt the poor? Why do you think James connects the two ideas together?

Sure, the Ten Commandments do not talk about the rich and the poor exactly. But James wants us to see that we break the law when we hurt the poor or needy. We cannot keep the law if we behave in this awful way. Our faith is worth nothing if we hurt anyone. So, you must love your neighbor. Then you will show people the real meaning of the law of God. This love is present truth now, just as it was in the time of Moses and James. As we saw, present truth is the Bible truth people need most for their time.

`As Seventh-day Adventists, why must we not hurt the poor and needy? How does James help us see that our helping the poor and needy is part of obeying the law?`