---
title:  Further Thought
date:  29/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

During the best of times, the people of God often were not kind or fair to poor and helpless people. Read Amos 5:11, 12.

God warns His people that He will punish them for not showing mercy to the poor:

“ ‘You walk on [hurt] poor people.

You force them to give you grain.

You have built fancy houses of [from] cut stone.

But you will not live in them.

You have planted beautiful vineyards [grape gardens].

But you will not drink the wine from them.

It is because I know your many crimes.

I know your terrible [awful] sins.

You hurt people who do right.

You keep the poor from getting justice [a fair chance] in court’ ” (Amos 5:11, 12, ICB).

God also sees every evil thing His people do against the poor. God sees when His people steal from the poor, too. (Read Isaiah 3:14, NLV.)

“ ‘The LORD judges the leaders and rulers [chiefs] of His people: ‘It is you who have destroyed the grape-field. What had belonged to the poor is in your houses’ ” (Isaiah 3:14, NLV).

**Discussion Questions**:

`Israel needed to remember that they were strangers in Egypt. God wanted His people to be kind to strangers the way they wished the Egyptians had been kind to them. In the same way, Jesus wants us to be kind to other people. When we look at the cross, we see Jesus did so much for us. Why should this thought help us to be kind to other people?`

`We can worship on the right day. We can understand Bible truth about death, hell, and the wild animal power and his mark. But what good does all that knowledge do us if we are mean and nasty to other people or are not fair when we judge a problem? Why must we be careful not to think that our knowing Bible truth is all that God asks of us? Why is this thinking a trap for us?`